





                   FIRST COW



                  Screenplay by

           Jon Raymond and Kelly Reichardt


 "The bird a nest, the spider a web, man friendship."

William Blake, Proverbs of Hell


EXT. SAUVIE ISLAND / COLLINS BEACH - MORNING - CONTINUOUS

The day is overcast, a light on and off drizzle. The river is
a solemn gray expanse.

In the distance, a huge cargo barge grinds towards port, its
long, globe-crossing journey almost at a rest.

Up on the wet sand, JORDAN and TAKUYA are stirring. In need
of coffee, they attempt to get a fire going with a bundle of
store-bought logs.

On the waters edge, BRUNO, fetches a stick, runs and drops it
at the feet of twenty-seven year old TERI.

In her rain jacket, Teri picks up the stick and throws it
further down the beach.


EXT. SAUVIE ISLAND / COLLINS BEACH - CONTINUOUS - MORNING

As Teri wanders the beach, she finds a head of cabbage, a
bundle of radishes, a melon. She pokes at some of the
groceries washed up on shore with a stick.

Bruno lopes ahead.

Teri follows.


EXT. SAUVIE ISLAND BEACH-SANDY TRAIL-MORNING - CONTINUOUS

Teri turns onto a sandy trail leading back into the brush,
leaving the beach behind


EXT. SAUVIE ISLAND MEADOW - MORNING - CONTINUOUS

Teri and Bruno enter a tawny meadow banded by cottonwood and
maple. The ground is damp. The dead grass is matted.

Bruno rushes ahead to investigate something on the ground. He
barks and begins excitedly to sniff.

Teri goes over to join him.

Bruno stands anxiously near something white and rounded
embedded in the earth. He's eager to share.
                                                             2


Teri looks closer.

She kneels, and wipes wet mud away.

It's a human skull.

She stares at it, worried at first, but also intrigued.

She holds Bruno back and looks around. No one else is around.

She pulls a phone from her sweater pocket and finds no bars,
no reception.

She snaps a photo of the skull, and returns the phone to her
pocket.

Bruno hovers, waiting impatiently.

Teri crouches again and touches the remains. The wet dirt
scrapes off and more bones are revealed.

She gets down on her knees and starts unearthing.


EXT. SAUVIE ISLAND MEADOW - LATE MORNING

The sun peeks through the cloudy sky. The drizzle has let up.

Jordon and Takuya walk down the path that leads to the
meadow.

BEGIN CREDITS:

In a chunky sweater and wool cap, Teri continues her
excavation, carefully digging around the bones.

Bruno explores nearby, happy to be in the open air.

Already, a human skeleton is uncovered. Skull, clavicle, rib
cage, pelvis, all still in proper order, exposed by recent
drought followed by hard rains. She keeps going.


EXT. SAUVIE ISLAND MEADOW - AFTERNOON

The sun is slanting into afternoon.

Teri's cap is off, her sweater unzipped. She eats a power bar
and drinks from a thermos as the boys dig. The three of them
take turns, working two at a time.

Bruno is stretched out chewing on a stick.

The skeleton is fully visible now. And more:
                                                               3


A second skull.


EXT. SAUVIE ISLAND MEADOW - LATER DAY

The afternoon is aging. The sun has disappeared and the light
rain has returned.

Two complete skeletons, the forms intact, only loosely
jumbled by the passage of time.

Teri, Jordon and Takuya, stare at the remains with amazement
and reverence,.

The skeletons lie side by side, holding hands.

END CREDIT SEQUENCE


EXT. WOODS NEAR CAMP - CIRCA 1820 - DUSK

A dense rain forest.

On the ground, ferns and moss-covered rocks and
disintegrating trunks. Overhead, a canopy of needles and
lichen-draped limbs. All around, the fir trees form
melancholy aisles into the gloom. The last light of day sifts
through.

OTIS "COOKIE" FIGOWITZ, the hired cook for a fur trapping
expedition, prowls for mushrooms. He's bearded, tentative,
and dirty.

From the distance, rough laughter and yelling drifts to his
ears. Men's voices muffled by the woods.

He walks deeper into the woods clutching his basket.


EXT. WOODS NEAR CAMP - CONTINUOUS - DUSK

Cookie keeps hunting. The voices fade and disappear.

He's alone in the silence of the primordial forest. He can
hear the smallest sounds of crackling twigs, scurrying bugs.

He finds some mushrooms and puts them in his wicker basket.


EXT. WOODS NEAR CAMP - CONTINUOUS - DUSK

Cookie bends to examine a bug. His own breath is the only
sound.
                                                               4


The bug is shiny and desperate. The bug can barely scramble
through the moss.

Cookie helps it along. He watches the bug scurry into some
ferns.

He's still watching when he hears a noise, like a footstep,
not far away.

He pauses. He crouches still. Another crunching, foot-like
sound.

He waits. The woods are darkening. Every direction is the
same tangle of greenery.

Another foot fall.

                       COOKIE
             Hello?

No answer.

                       COOKIE (CONT'D)
             Who's there?

No answer.

Another rustling sound. He panics. He picks up his basket and
starts walking briskly away.

He hears footsteps behind him and looks behind, seeing
nothing.

He starts jogging. Soon he is sprinting through the trees
chased by the sound of his own footsteps.


EXT. CAMP - CONTINUOUS - DUSK

Cookie runs into camp. A few ramshackle tents, sleeping DOGS,
and a partially unpacked sled piled with pelts and supplies.

Scattered around a fire are FIVE ROUGH-LOOKING MEN, each
alone among the group. They sit smoking, whittling, chewing
tobacco. One stabs a log with a dagger. Another shakes a rock
out of his shoe.

They barely look up as Cookie catches his breath and tries to
hide his terror. They pass a bottle of alcohol around. The
dirty tin plates and spoons of their last meal lie cast
about.
                                                 5


                      JACK TRAPPER 4
              (noticing Cookie)
          Cookie. How about some of that
          buffalo steak for breakfast? With
          the fried cakes?

                    COOKIE
          We finished all that back in
          Colter's Hell--

                    DAME TRAPPER 2
          What about soda bread?

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          Dried apple pie.

                    COOKIE
          None of that left, either, I'm
          afraid.

The men brood, passing the bottle.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          You find anything out there
          tonight?

                    COOKIE
          Some mushrooms. And a digger
          squirrel. I had the squirrel. But
          it got away.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          What's in the larder?

Cookie is slow to answer.

                    COOKIE
          Ten dry biscuits. Some jerky. Salt.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          Nothing else?

                    COOKIE
          No.

A long silence.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          It's the cookie's job to improvise.
          This is a land of abundance, Mr.
          Figowitz.

Cookie is silent, on the spot.
                                                               6


                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3 (CONT'D)
          You're charged with finding our
          vittles until we reach Fort
          Tillikum. You're aware of that, I
          know.

One trapper has been hogging the bottle. Another trapper
rises.

                    BILL TRAPPER 1
          Hold up there, mister. Share the
          wealth.

The trapper takes one more swig and the other one yanks the
bottle away, which causes some liquid to spill.

They rise and start menacing each other.

                    DAME TRAPPER 2
          Hey there, that's a waste, bud.

                    BILL TRAPPER 1
          He's drinkin' more'n his share.

                    JACK TRAPPER 4
          Now no one's got it.

Cookie slips away into his tent.


INT. COOKIE'S TENT - CONTINUOUS - INTO EVENING

Cookie, among the few pots and pans and utensils sits and
pulls off his boots. He pokes his finger through a hole in
the sole.

Outside the sounds of punching, yelping, the crashing of
branches.


EXT. WOODS NEAR CAMP - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie wanders the woods with his basket again.

He finds some mushrooms and gladly scoops them into his
basket.

He watches the moon shining brightly on the trees.

Faraway, a coyote howls.

He moves a little farther along.

An owl stares from a tree branch.
                                                             7


Cookie stares back. The owl's eyes are wide and penetrating,
seeing into Cookie's mind.

The owl takes flight.

Cookie is again alone.

As he turns to move on, he spots a discarded plate sitting on
a fallen log next to a bush. There are a few beans left on
the plate.

He goes over to retrieve it but when he tries to lift it the
plate remains in place. He pulls again but it won't budge.

He looks closer and notices a man's finger holding the plate
down. The finger is attached to an arm that extends from the
bush.

In the bush is a NAKED MAN. He stares out at Cookie.

Cookie stumbles backwards, shocked and afraid.

                     NAKED MAN
              (quietly)
          Hello.

                     COOKIE
              (quietly)
          Hello.

They stare at each other in the darkness. Two men in the
primordial wood. The strange man has disheveled, black hair,
a two-inch scar running from his shoulder down his arm, and
dark almond eyes.

                    COOKIE (CONT'D)
          Are you... all right?

                    NAKED MAN
          Hungry.

Cookie nods, and realizes the man is completely naked. He
seems slightly dazed.

                    NAKED MAN (CONT'D)
          Your cook has retired for the
          night?

                    COOKIE
          No, I don't think so.

                    NAKED MAN
          You can call him out here? For a
          moment?
                                                               8


Cookie examines the naked man in the moonlight.

                    COOKIE
          I'm the cook.

The man takes this in.

From the bush the naked man rises. He steps out and sits on a
log.

                    NAKED MAN
          I see. I've been walking for a long
          time... might stay here awhile.

Cookie watches him, debating with himself what to do.

                     COOKIE
          Wait.

Cookie goes.

The naked man sits and waits, watching.

He keeps waiting. He's totally depleted, resigned.

Eventually, Cookie returns with a dry biscuit, a piece of
jerky, a jug of water and a blanket.

Cookie hands him the food.

The naked man wraps the blanket around himself. He sits on
the log opposite Cookie and gobbles the food down. He's
ravenous.

                    COOKIE (CONT'D)
          You speak good English... for an
          Indian.

                    NAKED MAN
          I'm not Indian.

                     COOKIE
          Oh.

                     NAKED MAN
          Chinese.

As the eating ends, King-Lu takes a drink of water from the
jug.

                    COOKIE
          I didn't know there were Chinese in
          these parts.
                                                            9


                    KING-LU
          Everyone is here. Everyone wants
          that soft gold. It's why you're
          here, isn't it?

                    COOKIE
          We've trapped our share.

They sit in the dark. Cookie keeps his eyes on the stranger.

                    COOKIE (CONT'D)
          What's your name?

                    NAKED MAN
          King-Lu. So they call me. You?

                    COOKIE
          Otis Figowitz. They call me Cookie.

                    KING-LU
          Good to know you.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          There are some Russian men chasing
          me. Have you seen them?

                    COOKIE
          No.

King-Lu seems mildly relieved within his weariness.

                    COOKIE (CONT'D)
          Why are the men chasing you?

                    KING-LU
          I might have killed one of their
          friends.

                    COOKIE
          Oh.

King-Lu gathers his thoughts, stares at the ground. He sighs
and holds his head.

                    KING-LU
          Chenamus...my friend...they called
          him a thief. They gutted him from
          neck to loin.

Cookie listens intently.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          I had a pistol and I took a shot. I
          got one in the neck, I think.
                    (MORE)
                                                            10

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          Then they came after me, and I ran
          into the woods.

King-Lu shakes his head at the memory of it.

                    COOKIE
          What happened to your clothes?

                     KING-LU
              (remembering)
          I stuffed them in hollow trees.
          Threw my gun in a creek. (sighs)

King-Lu is obviously traumatized.

Cookie observes him in the dark.

                     KING-LU (CONT'D)
              (More to himself)
          His insides fell out right there on
          the ground. I can still hear it.

King-Lu simply stares now, exhausted by the telling.

                    COOKIE
          Come on. You can sleep.

Cookie helps him up.


EXT. CAMP - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie and King-Lu creep past the sleeping men, the dogs, and
A HORSE.

King-Lu seems worried, peering at the white trappers snoring
and tossing on their bedding.


INT. COOKIE'S TENT - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie hides King-Lu on a mat among his supplies.
Immediately, he's asleep.

Cookie lies nearby, unable to sleep. His mind ablaze.


INT. COOKIE'S TENT - MORNING

The morning sun casts shadows on the tent walls.

Cookie awakens.
                                                             11


The sound of gruff conversation. Somewhere, the men are
exchanging words.

Cookie sees that King-Lu is gone.

He pulls back his tent flap and looks out across the camp to
see...


INT. COOKIE'S TENT / EXT. CAMP - CONTINUOUS - MORNING

At the edge of camp, Trapper 3 speaks to a RUSSIAN TRAPPER---
fur bonnet, long moustache, long rifle, long knife.

The Russian's words float over to Cookie's ears. The Russian
seems angry. The trapper nods with understanding, and some
impatience.

                    SABONIS RUSSIAN TRAPPER
          ...a fool... a little mongrel son
          of a whore... when we find the
          whoreson he'll wish he never set
          foot in this shit forest.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          ... So what I'm hearing is two days
          all told, is that right? Or
          sometime early on the second
          day?...

                    SABONIS RUSSIAN TRAPPER
          Two days, the most.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          So not too late that day...

                    SABONIS RUSSIAN TRAPPER
          Not late, if fast.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          If you make good time, I
          understand... Ford the river about
          midday...

                    SABONIS RUSSIAN TRAPPER
          After falls, after falls. Midday,
          no. What's that? This time of year,
          midday is early.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          After the falls... whenever you get
          there. Right.
                                                               12


Some final pointing and nodding goes down between the
trappers. And at last the Russian leaves, stalking into the
greenery of the woods.

As Trapper 3 ambles back to the center of camp, the other
trappers are just rousing.

He speaks to everyone in ear shot:

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3 (CONT'D)
          Move out! We got directions! North
          and west to Fort Tillikum. Two
          day's journey. Hit the river and
          head downstream. Downriver at every
          branch.

The trappers grumble their pleasure.

Cookie closes his tent flap.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3 (OS) (CONT'D)
          Oh, and there's a murderer in the
          woods so stay close!

Cookie takes in the new situation.


EXT. WOODS BETWEEN CAMPS - LATER - DAY

The trapping party slogs through the rain forest. Each
trapper carries a bundle of beaver pelts on his back.

The horse pulls the sled of cooking supplies and provisions.

Cookie trails towards the rear carrying his own heavy load.

A trapper, Dame, plays a Jew's harp until another trapper,
Bill, bats it from his hands.

Cookie keeps walking. He pulls near the sled. He spots King-
Lu in hiding among some blankets.

Their eyes meet. They say nothing.

Cookie keeps walking. He looks at the horse to see if he
detects signs of obvious burden from the added weight he
hauls.


EXT. WOODS BETWEEN CAMPS - LATER - DAY

The trapping party continues slogging.
                                                            13


                    JACK TRAPPER 4
          I need food. Food!

                    BILL TRAPPER 1
          Food! (mumbling to himself)
          Stupid, pathetic trees.

                    JACK TRAPPER 4
          I'll shoot somethin.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          The Russian said the elk are gone
          this time of year.

                    DAME TRAPPER 2
          What else he say?

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          The Russian said the company is
          paying three silver ingots for
          every beaver pelt, two copper for
          muskrat. Your choice of Spanish
          heads or Chinese sycees. There's
          beer at the fort. And other things.

                      JACK TRAPPER 4
          Women?

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          More than one.

The men grumble, emboldened. They march on.


EXT. WOODS BETWEEN CAMPS - SOON - DAY

Cookie walks alongside his provisions sled pulled by the
horse.

He can see King-Lu's foot exposed under a blanket. He covers
him.

They keep walking.


EXT. RIVERSIDE CAMP - LATE AFTERNOON

The sleds are stopped.

The sound of a rushing river can be heard.

The sun is setting.
                                                              14


                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          We go down river from here. A day
          more. We can camp here for the
          night. We'll find the fort
          tomorrow.

The trappers hurrah. One man wanders off to piss; another
starts setting up his tent; two others start joking around
with each other, wrestling among the rocks.

Cookie can see King-Lu peering from under the blanket.

                     JACK TRAPPER 4
              (calling from nearby)
          I'm hungry as hell, Cookie! Find me
          some food.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          We'll be there tomorrow. Eat your
          hand.

                    JACK TRAPPER 4
          I want food tonight. Or I'm takin
          it out of this one.

He comes over and shoves Cookie.

                    JACK TRAPPER 4 (CONT'D)
          I'm sick of looking at this one.
          Can't wait to be done with him.
          Can't wait to never see him again.

He shoves Cookie again.

                     JACK TRAPPER 4 (CONT'D)
          You get your cut at the fort, then
          we can see if you keep it. I'll be
          waitin for you outside the gates.
          Waitin for you with your sack full
          of silver.

                    CLYDE TRAPPER 3
          Leave him alone.

The trappers square off and Cookie scurries away.


EXT. RIVER NEAR RIVERSIDE CAMP - MOMENTS LATER - LATE
AFTERNOON

Flustered and afraid Cookie wanders down to the river.
                                                                15


EXT. RIVER SIDE - LATE AFTERNOON

He goes to the river's edge and looks into the water.

The water is teeming with fish. Fish everywhere. Big, meaty
salmon with silver skin.

Cookie hurries back up to the camp.


EXT. RIVERSIDE CAMP - CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON

Cookie locates a butterfly net among his things.

He pulls a basket from his pile, too, and as he looks over at
the supply sled he sees trapper, Bill, digging for something
among the blankets.

Cookie catches his breath, afraid for King-Lu.

The trapper rips out some boxes and rope. He gives Cookie a
cold look.

But no King-Lu.

Cookie is relieved. He doesn't wait around.

He heads back down to the water.


EXT. RIVER NEAR RIVERSIDE CAMP- CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON /
DUSK

Cookie wades into the river. He dips his net in the water and
lifts out a silver salmon.

He tosses it on the bank and dips again, catching more.

He stumbles along, pulling fish from the river.

He spots his blanket near the water's edge.

He looks out and sees the receding figure of King-Lu swimming
across the river.

Cookie watches him swimming strongly towards the other side.

                                                   DISSOLVE:


EXT. SHIP IN THE FOG - TWO WEEKS LATER - MORNING

Through the thick morning mist, A COW appears.
                                                               16


The animal seems to be floating over the river.

The lapping water is even and hushed.

Soon a ferry boat comes into view, piloted by a SWARTHY
SAILOR MAN.

The ferry floats upstream, carrying the cargo of the cow.


EXT. FORT - RIVER BANK - MORNING

On a sandy beach, a MULTNOMAH BOY skims a rock.

The ferry boat is beached.

A sailor leads the cow off the ferry, onto the shore.

SOME WORKERS stop to watch.

A MULTNOMAH MAN and WOMAN with a BABY on her back, gather and
watch as the cow arrives on land.

THOMAS, a junior fur company guard, approaches, handing
papers over to the sailor. The sailor looks at the papers and
shrugs. He gives the reins of the cow to Thomas.

Thomas leads the cow over the sandy beach towards the misty
trees.

DESMOND, a MULTNOMAH MAN watches them go.

Up the bank wait the walls of a trading fort.


EXT. WOODS NEAR FORT - DAY

A ROUGH-LOOKING MAN ambles along a forest trail, counting
silver coins (or Fort coupons). Over his shoulder is a pair
of pants, on his head two hats, around his wrist a mahogany
cane, on his face a satisfied smile.

Behind him, Cookie, cleaner, with shorter hair, sits on a
stump, putting on a new pair of boots.

Satisfied with his purchase, he leaves his old boots behind.

Cookie walks around a bend and passes a bloodied knife on the
ground.

Further along, some bushes and piles of debris. Among the
local population's refuse, Cookie spots a BODY. Is it alive?
He can't tell. All he can see are bare legs, stockinged feet
that stick out of the bush.
                                                              17


He peers at the body a moment longer but doesn't want to
investigate.

He hurries on.


EXT. PARSON'S - DAY - SOON

Cookie, walks through town, getting used to his new boots.

The new boots are fetching in his eyes, and fairly
comfortable.

He passes ERIC, a trapper, who is heading in the opposite
direction, holding a pig he has just stolen.

PARSON, who lives at the edge of town, is carrying the week's
supplies back to his shack. He stops and takes notice of the
man with the pig and then Cookie.

                    PARSON
          Fancy boots, lad!


EXT. FORT - DAY - SOON

The trading fort is a simple cluster of wooden shacks
surrounded by a sturdy wooden fence. Atop a stripped post
flies the flag of the trading company.

Outside the fence, imposing fir trees and a drab flea market
at the edge of the world.

A few INDIANS, RUSSIANS, BRITONS, and FRENCHMEN barter back
and forth on blankets laid with nails, herbs, knives,
whatever might have some value. A LAZY GUARD loiters near the
main gate.

Cookie, with his new boots, walks among the MEN and WOMEN,
lonely. He overhears snippets of conversation floating
through the drizzle. They talk about trade, weather, gossip.

His feet slurp in the mud as he rounds the corner of the long
fence.

He passes TWO MEN.

                    MAN #1 (OS)
          Those look like Jean-Baptiste's
          boots.

                    MAN #2 (OS)
          How the hell would I know?
                                                               18


Cookie walks to the edge of "town."


EXT. WOODS NEAR FORT - DAY

A LITTLE GIRL with pigtails in a gingham dress, carries an
empty wooden bucket.


EXT. EDGE OF FORT - CONTINUOUS - DAY

Cookie sits under the boughs of the fir trees, untucks his
pant legs from his new boots. He counts his money. A stack of
fort coupons.

Now where to go?

He sits on a stump, with nothing to do.

The LITTLE GIRL with the empty wooden bucket comes out of the
woods and passes Cookie.

He watches her walk gaily towards the fort, swinging her
bucket.

He follows her.


EXT. FORT - CONTINUOUS - DAY

The little girl wanders past the traders Cookie just left.

She enters the fort's walls. And Cookie enters behind her.


INT. FORT - CONTINUOUS - DAY

A guarded warehouse for furs. A watchtower. A saloon. A
kitchen garden.

The little girl wanders across down the single row of ad-hoc
buildings.

Cookie follows.

She goes into the saloon, passing through it's burlap door.

Cookie waits outside.

He can hear the boisterous sounds of the saloon's PATRONS
from outside. Laughter and the stomping of boots.

Soon, the little girl exits with her bucket sloshing with
beer.
                                                               19


She belches loudly and walks past Cookie, and back out the
gate of the fort.

Cookie has nowhere to go but into the saloon.


INT. SALOON - CONTINUOUS - DAY

Cookie enters the bar.

The air is hot and filled with smoke. It's a long, dirty room
with a wood stove and a tattered blanket on the wall. Some of
the men speak the Multnomah trade jargon.

He sits at the bar facing himself in the long mirror. He
looks small and pale compared to the rough men around him.
Timidly, he orders:

                    COOKIE
          Whiskey, please.

The drink appears.

The bartender waits for payment.

                      COOKIE (CONT'D)
          How much?

Cookie holds out his money. The bartender takes two coins.

Cookie sips his drink as the PATRONS-soldiers, sailors,
trappers, Indians, etc.---keep laughing and gambling, playing
poker and mahjong. The bar is filled with competing voices
and competing stories. The men talk about health problems,
grand plans, card games, foreign countries. All the talk
mixes together and cancels each other out.

Among the conversations, Cookie picks up on one in
particular, and tries to catch some of its details.

                     LLOYD
          First one in the Territory. Shipped
          it all the way up from Saint
          Francisco.

                    SAILOR
          Saint Luis Obispo.

Lloyd is annoyed by the interruption but the drunken sailor
doesn't seem to notice.

                    LLOYD
          I'm told Saint Francisco.
                                                       20


                    SAILOR
          Saint Luis Obispo. I spoke to the
          ferryman.

                    LLOYD
          The ferryman... Never trust a
          drunken ferryman. Your mother never
          told you that?

                    SAILOR
          He wasn't a drunk.

                    LLOYD
          Ha! You don't think so? You've seen
          his hand in the morning? He's
          always drunk, that one. Or sleeping
          it off.

                    SAILOR
          He seemed fine to me.

                    LLOYD
          His blood is whiskey.

                    SAILOR
          Well, he said Saint Luis Obispo,
          and he was the one bringing the
          cow.

                    LLOYD
          Have it your way, Saint Luis
          Obispo.

Lloyd directs his story to the man across from him.

                    LLOYD (CONT'D)
          The Chief Factor ordered two cows
          and a calf. That's the true story.
          But the other ones died on the way.

                    MAN
          What good's one cow to anyone? Cow
          needs a stud.

The sailor nods.

                    LLOYD
          Chief Factor wants milk in his tea.
          (putting on airs) Like a proper
          Englishman.

                    MAN
          Like a proper lady.
                                                               21


They laugh.

                    MAN (CONT'D)
          This ain't a place for cows. God
          would've put cows here if it was.

                    LLOYD
          No place for white men either then.

Cookie listens, imposing himself into the cow's part.

As Cookie sips his drink and eavesdrops, a BIG, TOUGH-LOOKING
MAN walks into the saloon. With him is a BABY, swaddled, in a
basket.

They sit beside Cookie at the bar. The big guy orders a beer.
He sets the baby on the bar.

Cookie keeps to himself, making eyes with the baby.

Behind him, a bar patron, PAT, has noted the new arrival and
can't keep his mouth shut.

                    PAT
          Well, look who's here. Brilliant
          William.

The bartender gives William his beer.

                    PAT (CONT'D)
          I need a few sun beams, William.
          Can you gather me up a dozen sun
          beams? They're on the ground, just
          lying around everywhere. Any old
          beams will do.

The big guy ignores the show off, PAT. He drinks and stares
at the bar.

                     WILLIAM
              (mumbling to himself)
          Sonsabitches.

                    PAT
          Here's a question. What does a
          tongue taste like? You ever think
          about that? I bet you have some
          distinct notions about what your
          tongue tastes like, am I right
          William?

Some of the other men in the saloon laugh.
                                                               22


William is not pleased but stays focused on his drink. Only
Cookie can hear him mutter:

                    WILLIAM
          Traders all sonsabitches.

Pat gets up and comes near William. Pacing behind him.

                    PAT
          Whatcha sayin there Brilliant
          William? Something brilliant, I'm
          bettin. He's always good for some
          clever opinions. What's the
          difference between a river and
          lake? You figured that one out yet,
          Willy?

The bartender gives a warning glance.

                    PAT (CONT'D)
          I'm not bothering him. I'm just
          askin an honest question. What
          about the chicken and the egg? He
          knew for sure it was the chicken.
          Til he thought about it from the
          egg's point of view. That really
          hurt your old noggin, didn't it,
          William?

He touches William's back.

                    PAT (CONT'D)
          Yep, yep. I think that's how you
          got this crack in your brain bone.
          (He laughs, tapping William's head)

The bartender shakes his head. William is getting angrier and
angrier. He's staring furiously at the bar, his mouth
twitching.

                    PAT (CONT'D)
          Willy, you better do something or
          your head's gonna blow.

At last William spins around. He reaches out and grabs Cookie
by the coat.

                    WILLIAM
          You watch him til I'm done.

Cookie barely has time to nod yes, before William turns and
slugs Pat in the face, sending him reeling.
                                                               23


William stands and grabs Pat, dragging him across the room
and through the burlap door flap.

Cookie watches as the other men rise and follow too, happily
chanting and yelling their blood thirst.

As the room empties, Cookie sits with the baby basket and
tries to ignore the brutality.

The bartender locks the till and goes to watch the action.

Cookie and the baby sit alone at the bar.

Cookie sighs, looks at the baby. Makes a little face.

                    A VOICE
          Hello, Cookie. I thought I might
          find you here sooner or later.

Cookie raises his gaze and in the mirror's reflection, sees
behind him, a figure sitting across the now-empty saloon.

It's King-Lu, now decently shod, in fine frontier regalia.

Cookie turns, pleased at the sight of a familiar face, but
keeps his thoughts to himself. King-Lu gives him a wide
smile.

                    COOKIE
          I didn't think I'd ever see you
          again.

King Lu crosses the room with his beer.

The sounds of the fight waft in through the burlap door: the
initial punches, the clamor by some men to stop the carnage,
and now, a full-blown street brawl involving all parties.

King-Lu takes a seat at the bar beside Cookie.

                    KING-LU
          I was lucky. Those Russian villains
          left the country just after I left
          you. I thought about doing some
          violence to them but they were gone
          before I knew it. Now I'm free and
          easy, right back where I was.

King-Lu sips his beer.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          Where are all your kind friends?
                                                          24


                    COOKIE
          They mostly went south. Some north.

                    KING-LU
          But not you.

                    COOKIE
          Not yet. No one would have me.

A man tumbles in the door and bounces back out to keep
brawling.

                     KING-LU
          And where are you staying in the
          mean time?

                    COOKIE
          I've got a tent a mile thataway.
          Other side of the hill.

                    KING-LU
          I've got a place a mile thataway.
          I've got a bottle there, too.

                     COOKIE
              (unsure)
          Ah ha.

A beat.

                     KING-LU
              (clarifying)
          Maybe you'd like to come help me
          drink it.

                    COOKIE
          Oh. Of course, I would... but...

He nods at the baby.

                    KING-LU
          Leave him. He is fine.

                    COOKIE
          But... He's just a child.

                    KING-LU
          He is fine.

Cookie hands the baby a cork to play with.

                     COOKIE
          You stay here. Your daddy will be
          back soon.
                                                               25


Cookie and King-Lu exit, slipping away. The fight continues
outside.

The baby sits alone on the bar.


EXT. TOWN NEAR FORT - SOON - AFTERNOON

Cookie and King-Lu walk.

Outside the fort walls, the land is a mix of forest and
meadow, marked by occasional huts and tents, and pathways
worn in the more trafficked areas.

A DOG searches for food scraps.

A BUSINESS MAN, in a suit, sits outside a shack reading a
months old London newspaper. He takes a page from the paper
to cover the bucket of beer near his chair. The little bucket
girl, his daughter, sits on the small porch stringing blue
beads onto a necklace.

                    KING-LU
          ... I've been in these parts close
          to two years now. I've thought of
          leaving more than once, but I sense
          opportunity here. Ships coming in
          and out every week. More raw
          materials than anywhere I've seen,
          and I've been all over.

JAMES PARSONS comes out onto his makeshift porch with his
RAVEN. He takes note of Cookie and King-Lu, watching them as
they pass.


                     COOKIE
              (returning to the
               conversation)
          You've been everywhere.

                    KING-LU
          I caught my first trade ship from
          Canton when I was nine. I sailed to
          London, Africa, saw the pyramids.
          Saw the southern cross. This is a
          land of riches, I'll tell you.

Quickly, the homes taper off.

EXT. WOODS - SOON - AFTERNOON
                                                               26


King-Lu and Cookie make their way along a deer path, stopping
to check King-Lu's traps along the way. The traps are make-
shift; a scrap of fish for bait, birds pick at the ground
surrounding the traps.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          I see something in this land I
          haven't seen before. Pretty much
          everywhere's been touched by now...

King-Lu lifts the heavy wood and pulls out a dead squirrel.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          but this is still new. More
          nameless things around here than
          you could shake an eel at.

King-Lu puts the carcass in his shoulder bag and they move
on.

                    COOKIE
          It doesn't seem new to me. It seems
          old.

                    KING-LU
          Everything's old if you look at it
          in that way. But that doesn't stop
          new things coming into the world,
          does it?


EXT. WOODS/MEADOW NEAR FORT/HUTCH - SOON - AFTERNOON

They walk on, lost in their own thoughts.

They arrive at the next trap.

King-Lu lifts the fallen flat rock. Cookie picks up the
smashed squirrel by its tail. King-Lu opens his bag and
Cookie drops the squirrel in.

                    KING-LU
          What I'm saying is history isn't
          here yet. It's coming, but we got
          here early this time. Maybe this
          time around we can be ready for it.
          We can take it on our own terms.

Cookie likes the sound of that.
                                                            27


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - AFTERNOON

A rustic cabin at the edge of a meadow. Almost more a pile of
sticks.

Chickens scratch in the yard near a chicken coop and a
woodpile.

A wooden ladder leans against the hutch, on the ground a long
wooden yoke near a barrel of water.

The two men walk inside.


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

King-lu puts his bag of squirrel meat on a wooden table.

Cookie apprises the cottage. A fire pit, a hole in the roof.
Dirty clothes on the dirt floor. A grimy rug.

                    KING-LU
          Not much to look at, I know.

King-Lu pulls a bottle from a shelf and finds a cup.

He pours a cup and hands it to Cookie. They toast.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          Here's to something.

They drink.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          I'll get a fire going. You make
          yourself easy.

King-Lu exits to chop some wood.

Cookie looks around the hovel.

He finds a broom and starts sweeping.


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

Cookie shakes out the rug.

King-Lu gathers wood in the near distance.

Cookie goes back inside with the rug as King-Lu sets up
another piece of wood.

Cookie returns. He picks some flowers from outside the door.
                                                              28


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

Cookie puts the flowers in an empty bottle.

King-Lu enters with an arm load of wood.

                       KING-LU
             Looks better already!

He starts making a fire.

                       KING-LU (CONT'D)
             Where're you from, Cookie? I've
             been talking and talking.

                         COOKIE
             Maryland.

                       KING-LU
             Never been.

                       COOKIE
             It's fine. I don't remember it
             much.

                       KING-LU
             Not fine enough to stay, eh?

                       COOKIE
             My momma died when I was born. Then
             my daddy died. I had to move on to
             find work. Never stopped moving.
             You could say I'm from no where, I
             guess.

A pause of understanding.

                       KING-LU
             Well, here's to getting out of
             there.

King-Lu fills Cookie's cup again. The fire is catching,
growing into licking flames, throwing heat.

MONTAGE OF DAYS:


EXT. WOODS NEAR KING-LU'S HUTCH - DAY

Cookie and    King-Lu gather nuts from the branches of a thick
bush.

Cookie fills his basket.
                                                              29


Close-by King-Lu puts his stash in a sling he's made from his
shirt.

                    KING-LU
          ... Things gain value when you send
          them around, that's the thing. A
          fur here is worth a dollar; a fur
          in Paris, a hundred times that. I
          had an idea once. Furs are one
          thing. But there's precious oil in
          the beavers, too, that's worth
          something in China. They use it for
          medicine over there. If a man could
          take a batch of that precious
          beaver oil on a ship to Canton, he
          could make his fortune.

                    COOKIE
          Why don't you?

                    KING-LU
          Oil is in the glands. Glands never
          make it to the fort. Just rot away
          in the woods. Anyway, I don't have
          contacts in Canton. I'm from the
          north, and they hate a Northern man
          there. Worse than a white man to
          them.


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - ANOTHER DAY

Cookie's few belongings are now mixed among King-Lu's.

King-Lu debeards mussel shells while Cookie tends the fire
and chops vegetables...

                    KING-LU
          ... What I'd really like is a farm.
          The land south of here is wide
          open. The world wants filberts. Or
          walnuts. Or almonds.

Cookie collects the mussels from King-Lu. He picks off the
last strands that King-Lu missed, puts them in the boiling
water.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          Something you can pack up and send.
          But you can't just grow a tree, it
          takes time.
                                                            30


EXT. RIVER NEAR KING-LU'S HUTCH - ANOTHER DAY

Cookie washes clothing and dishes in the river.

King-Lu sits against a rock. He's busy thinking.

                    KING-LU
          ... It's the getting started that's
          the puzzle. No way for a poor man
          to get a start. You can't grow a
          batch of nuts, harvest them, crate
          and ship them to market without
          getting payment on them until
          after. You need capital. Or you
          need some kind of miracle.

                    COOKIE
          You need leverage.

                    KING-LU
          Or a crime.

King-Lu thinks harder.

                    COOKIE
          I'd like to open a hotel someday. A
          place for travelers.

                    KING-LU
          Hotel. That's nice.

                    COOKIE
          Or a bakery.

King-Lu gets up and stretches.

Cookie wrings water from a shirt.

                    KING-LU
          A hotel and bakery. With wild
          huckleberry pies. You could do that
          here.

                    COOKIE
          Someplace warmer.

                    KING-LU
          Warmer then.

King-Lu goes over and helps Cookie gather up their load.

Cookie puts his bag over his shoulder, nods to a small black
basalt sculpture across the river.
                                                               31


                    COOKIE
          One black rock.

                    KING-LU
          That's a weather stone. It makes
          rain, they say. They say it was a
          monster or a powerful spirit once---
          a Skookum--who got turned into
          stone. If anyone sits on it, it
          rains.

King-Lu and Cookie carry their items, leaving the beach.

                    COOKIE
          Do you believe in that?

                    KING-LU
          I believe different things in
          different places. It's good to be
          shifty in a new country. You never
          know who might be writing the rules
          come night fall.

MONTAGE ENDS


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - DAY

King-Lu naps in a hammock.


EXT. WOODS NEAR CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - DAY

Cookie walks in the woods with his basket, gathering herbs
and berries.


EXT. CLEARING NEAR CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Beyond the trees, in a clearing, is the cow, grazing.

Cookie stares at the cow. Its eyes are big and brown. Its
coat shines in the sun.

The cow is a glorious creature, even more beautiful so far
from home.


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - EARLY EVENING

A seasonal rain pounds the roof of King-Lu's hutch. Water
leaks into make-shift buckets and baskets that the men have
set around the place.
                                                            32


King-Lu is mending a pair of pants.

Cookie lights a lantern.

                    COOKIE
          I found the cow today.


King-Lu keeps mending.

                    COOKIE (CONT'D)
          It isn't far from the Chief
          Factor's house. In a meadow. I'd
          like some of that milk.

                    KING-LU
          I'm not a milk drinker. Doesn't
          agree with me.

Cookie brings the lantern over to where King-Lu is sewing and
sets it down next to him.

                    COOKIE
          I wouldn't drink it. I'd use it for
          cookies, or scones. There's nothing
          better than buttermilk biscuits.
          I'm tired of this water and flour
          bread.

King-Lu finishes mending. He cuts the thread with his teeth.
He shakes out his pants and steps into them.

                     KING-LU
              (staring at his feet)
          What else would you need for good
          biscuits, Cookie?

                    COOKIE
          Flour, some sugar, salt, baking
          soda.

                     KING-LU
              (looking towards Cookie)
          How long does it take to milk a
          cow?

                      COOKIE
          Not long.

                    KING-LU
          Make much noise?
                                                              33


                    COOKIE
          No.

                    KING-LU
          Can cows give milk at night?

                    COOKIE
          As long as she wasn't milked after
          dinner.

An idea is hatched as King-Lu looks deviously at Cookie.
Cookie shakes his head, no. King-Lu shakes his head, yes.


EXT. WOODS NEAR CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - NIGHT

An owl hoots.

Cookie and King-Lu sneak through the woods with a watertight
Indian basket.

They keep moving and soon arrive at the edge of the cow's
meadow.

They find the cow in the moonlight.


EXT. EDGE OF COW MEADOW - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

At the edge of a clearing Cookie and King-Lu stand under a
large oak tree.

                    KING-LU
          I'll go up and keep an eye on
          things from here. Give me a lift.

Cookie gives him a leg-up.

                     KING-LU (CONT'D)
              (whispering)
          If I see anything, I'll give a
          call. I'll do an owl. Who-who.

                     COOKIE
              (looking up)
          All right but I don't think you can
          get up there.

King-Lu's boot is pressing on Cookie's shoulder and face,
until finally King-Lu gives up.
                                                            34


                     KING-LU
              (on the ground)
          I'll wait here.


EXT. COW MEADOW - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie gently approaches the cow.

Across the meadow, the dim lights of the Chief Factor's
house.

The cow lows softly. Cookie speaks to her softly.

                    COOKIE
          How are you? Didn't expect company
          so late at night, did you? Well.
          Here we are.

Cookie kneels and begins milking the cow. The streams of milk
splash in the basket.

                    COOKIE (CONT'D)
          Sorry about your husband. I heard
          he didn't make it all the way. And
          your calf... That's a terrible
          thing. Terrible. But you've got a
          nice place here. You've got a very
          nice little place here, don't you?

The cow is happy to have Cookie nearby.


EXT. TREE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

From beneath the branches, King-Lu watches Cookie vigilantly.

Cookie rises and heads towards King-Lu.

When Cookie reaches King-Lu, they retreat back into the
forest.


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - EARLY MORNING

A makeshift butter churn and various ingredients lay open on
the table.

Cookie pulls a Dutch oven from a stone hearth.
                                                               35


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - EARLY MORNING

King-Lu comes out of the woods carrying a pile of wood. He is
in his sleeping clothes and boots. He drops the wood in the
yard.

He goes to one of the buckets of rain water. He takes a drink
from his cupped hands. As he wipes his hands, Cookie hands
him a fresh biscuit through the window.

King-Lu pulls the biscuit apart and the steam comes out.

Taking a bite, clearly the biscuit is heavenly.


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - EARLY MORNING

King-Lu comes in from outdoors.

He takes a seat at the table.

Cookie brings over more biscuits.

They are golden and fluffy. The two men lean over the plate
and smell the freshly baked goods.

Cookie and King-Lu eat.

                    KING-LU
          How much do you think someone would
          pay for a biscuit like that?

                    COOKIE
          I wish we had honey.

                    KING-LU
          A glass of whiskey is two silver
          coins. A pickle is three. The men
          walk out of the fort loaded with
          silver and shells and company
          script-- I once saw a man spend
          five good beaver pelts on a broken
          fork.

King-Lu stands. Then he sits again.

Cookie eats another biscuit.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          I think we should test the waters.
          Next batch, Cookie, we'll take to
          market. I've heard of fortunes made
          on less.
                                                               36


                    COOKIE
          Seems dangerous.

                    KING-LU
          So's anything worth doing.

Cookie thinks, studying the plain biscuit.

                    COOKIE
          I think they'd like something
          sweeter.


EXT. EDGE OF TOWN /PARSON'S SHACK- ANOTHER MORNING

On a path heading to town, King-Lu carries a yoke over his
shoulders, balancing covered baskets on either side. Cookie
follows along carrying a blanket and a plank of cedar.

A random dog follows the smell coming from the baskets.

James Parson is shooing away the little bucket girl when
Cookie and King-Lu pass. The little girl follows Cookie and
King-Lu to the edge of town, then watches them go.


EXT. FORT - DAY

The drab flea market outside the fort is ongoing. A few
INDIANS, a few TRAPPERS, all peddle their wares on the
blankets. A batch of dried mushrooms. A scatter of beads.
Piles of mussels and clams.

Cookie lays out the blanket on the edge of the market. On top
of the blanket they lay their plank of cedar. On the cedar,
they lay a row of primitive donuts. Fried, sugared, puffy
dough. Drizzled with honey.

They sit and wait.


EXT. FORT - SOON - DAY

Soon enough, TWO TRAPPERS wander over.

                    KING-LU
          Fresh Oily Cakes. Best this side of
          the Sandwich Islands.

                    FORT TRAPPER 1
          Don't look like hard tack. Or soda
          bread.
                                                             37


                    FORT TRAPPER 2
          Looks like some kind of pancake.

                    FORT TRAPPER 1
          Smells good. What's in it?

                     KING-LU
              (exaggerating his accent)
          Secret ingredient. Ancient Chinese
          secret.

                      FORT TRAPPER 2
          How much?

                    KING-LU
          Five ingots. Or the equal in trade.

The trapper shrugs, digs into his purse. They exchange money
for oily cake.

He bites into it. Ecstasy appears on his face.

                     FORT TRAPPER 2
              (mouth full)
          Good lord, gimme another.

MORE TRAPPERS show up, flush with money, and buy up more.
Also, Lloyd with Thomas in tow.

A small bidding war ensues. Various currencies are used:
silver, gold, pelts, dentalium.

                    FORT TRAPPER 3
          I'll give you six ingots for the
          last one.

                    FORT TRAPPER 4
          Seven shells.

                    LLOYD
          Eight shells.

                      FORT TRAPPER 4
          Eight?

                    KING-LU
          Oily cake to this gentleman. We'll
          have more tomorrow.

Cookie hands over the last oily cake to Lloyd. Thomas watches
the oily cake go from Cookie to Lloyd. He hopes Lloyd will
share it but Lloyd turns his back to Thomas and shoves the
cake into his mouth.
                                                               38


EXT. EDGE OF TOWN /PARSON'S SHACK- AFTERNOON

The little beer girl walks through the center of town
carrying a full bucket of beer. She delivers it to the
businessman who sits outside his shack reading the same worn
newspaper.

Cookie and King-Lu pass by as the businessman pays the little
girl.

James Parson keeps a sharp eye on Cookie and King-Lu as they
walk home talking and laughing, the empty baskets over King-
Lu's shoulders.

They recount the day's victory.


EXT. TREE NEAR COW MEADOW - NIGHT

An ad-hoc ladder leans against the trunk of the oak tree.

High above, King-Lu sits in his sentry position in the
branches of the tree.


EXT. COW MEADOW - NIGHT

The moon is high.

In the darkness, Cookie milks quietly, surreptitiously, now
with a milking stool.

Cookie whispers sweetly to the cow, pressing his head against
her side.

                    COOKIE
          There now. We made some oily cakes
          with your milk. They were very
          good. We couldn't sell them fast
          enough. A little honey on them. It
          was your milk in the batter that
          did it. What a good, nice girl you
          are.

The cow lows softly.

The moon blankets them.
                                                              39


EXT. FORT - LATE MORNING

TRAPPERS gather round as they set up shop. There are some
Company SOLDIERS in the group, a NATIVE WOMAN, a couple
Native men, returning trappers and Thomas. They jostle and
jockey for the best spot in line.

King-Lu has added a hand-made sign: "Best Oily Cakes East of
Canton."

This time they make the oily cakes on site. They have a fire
and a cast iron skillet with boiling lard. They pour the
batter, pull out the oily cake, drizzle it with honey and
grated cinnamon.

King-Lu makes the customers line up in an orderly fashion.

                    KING-LU
          One for each customer, all right,
          men? Seems only fair. You were here
          first, I saw you. You step up.

                    FORT TRAPPER 5
          You oughtta make more next time.

                    KING-LU
          Only so many we can make in a day,
          friend.

                    FORT TRAPPER 6
          They want to keep the prices up.
          They're not dumb.

The trapper takes a bite of his oily cake.

                    FORT TRAPPER 6 (CONT'D)
          Damn it, what's in these things? It
          tastes like something my mama made.

                    KING-LU
          That's our secret, boys. Think of
          it as a little taste of home.

The oily cakes go quickly again. The Native men pay in
dentalium shells. Others in silver, gold, blue beads, one
pelt. The last one is sold to a man just behind Thomas who
pushes his money in King-Lu's face, right over the boy's
head.

As Thomas steams, King-Lu takes the money and places it in a
special sack.
                                                               40


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - LATER - DAY

Cookie and King-Lu are back home, their money stacked on the
rustic table. A hodgepodge of coins, beads, a single pelt,
and shells.

                    COOKIE
          You could buy an acre in California
          for that.

                    KING-LU
          It's a start all right. It won't
          last much longer, though.

                     COOKIE
          No?

                    KING-LU
          No, they'll get tired of it. And
          more milk cows will be here soon.
          We've got a window here, Cookie.

They regard their money.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          This is too much to keep in the
          house. We need a bank.

                    COOKIE
          How about the cottonwood tree?
          There's a good hole in the trunk.

King-Lu concurs.

They walk outside.


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - DAY

King-Lu goes over and puts the money in the tree as Cookie
follows along. King-Lu has to climb onto a piece of wood to
reach the hole.

                    COOKIE
          Which side of the tree has the most
          branches?

King-Lu tucks the sack inside the hole.

                    COOKIE (CONT'D)
          The outside.
                                                              41


EXT. RIVER NEAR KING-LU'S HUTCH - LATER DAY

King-Lu naps on the shore.

Cookie casts his line into the cold water.

They enjoy their afternoon of leisure.


EXT. FORT - NEXT DAY - MORNING

Cookie and King-Lu arrive at their spot. A GROUP OF CUSTOMERS
is already waiting for them.

They begin to set up when Lloyd, the Company man, draws near.
Thomas staggers behind him.

                     LLOYD
              (to Cookie)
          Hold one out today. The Chief
          Factor wants one. He'll be here
          soon.

Cookie hears him. His gaze seeks King-Lu. He lights the fire.

Behind Cookie, Lloyd smacks Thomas on the back of the head
for loitering about.

                     LLOYD (CONT'D)
              (to Thomas)
          Don't you have some work you should
          be doing? I don't need two shadows,
          do I?

King-Lu is already selling to the gathered men.


EXT. FORT - SOON - MORNING

The lazy guard snoozes with a gun in his lap. He is roused by
the poking in the ribs with the long end of a decorative
cane.

The CHIEF FACTOR at the entrance of the fort pokes at the
guard.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          Look alive, sir!

The Factor is a stately, imposing figure, older and more
dignified than anyone else in the territory. He has red-
blonde hair and mutton chops, and wears a waistcoat with
starched collar.
                                                            42


He walks past the line of merchants selling their wares
outside the fort fence.

He walks directly to the oily cake area and comes to a stop.
Cookie and King-Lu look at him expectantly.

                    CHIEF FACTOR (CONT'D)
          I've heard about your cakes. I'd
          like to try one, if I may. How
          much?

                    KING-LU
          Yes, sir. For you, only ten silver
          pieces.

He pulls his purse from his coat and pays.

Cookie prepares him an oily cake.

                    COOKIE
          A little cinnamon is nice.

Cookie offers a small grating of cinnamon.

The Chief Factor eats.

He loves it.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          I taste London in this cake. A
          bakery in South Kensington I once
          knew... Astonishing. How did you do
          this?

                    COOKIE
          I was indentured to a baker in
          Boston, sir. He taught me the
          trade.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          He was a good baker.

                    COOKIE
          Indeed. He was.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          What was his name?

                    COOKIE
          Barnaby Rose.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          Never heard of him. I commend you
          on a delicious baked good, sir.
                    (MORE)
                                                            43

                    CHIEF FACTOR (CONT'D)
          I hope you won't be moving on too
          soon.

                    KING-LU
          We have no plans.

The Chief Factor ignores him.

                    COOKIE
          We have no plans.

                     CHIEF FACTOR
              (taking his last bite)
          Very good.

The Chief Factor bows and leaves.

Cookie and King-Lu watch him go.

The other vendors call for customers.


EXT. WOODS NEAR CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Cookie with his milking stool and King-Lu carrying his
ladder, they sneak through the woods.

                     KING-LU
              (whispering)
          ... a hotel in Saint Francisco is
          harder. More competition. But more
          opportunity, too. More people
          coming through.


EXT. TREE / COW MEADOW - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Into the meadow they creep. King-Lu leans the ladder against
the tree's trunk.

                     KING-LU
              (whispering as he climbs)
          It's a good idea. We'll have enough
          to go there soon enough.

                     COOKIE
              (holding the ladder)
          We have enough to go now.

                     KING-LU
              (whispering)
          Enough to go. But not enough to
          start.
                                                             44


Cookie continues towards the cow.

                     KING-LU (CONT'D)
              (whispering)
          Psst.

Cookie looks back.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          Another cup is another dozen cakes.
          That's another fifty silver pieces,
          at least.

Cookie goes to the cow.

                    COOKIE
          Hello. Good evening. Back again.
          How are you tonight? You seem well.

Another secret milking begins. The bucket begins to fill.

A faraway dog starts barking.

Cookie's nervous.

Cookie does a questioning owl sound.

                       COOKIE (CONT'D)
          Who who?

No response. Cookie keeps milking.

                    COOKIE (CONT'D)
          You've never slept on a feather
          bed. A feather bed is very nice. It
          would be an excellent feature in a
          hotel. But how do you clean a
          feather bed? I don't know. It might
          not be the best idea for a hotel.

Cookie fills the bucket as much as he can bear.


EXT. FORT - LATE MORNING

A blot of batter fries in oil.

Cookie flips it. Pulls it out. Drizzles honey on it.

And hands it to the Chief Factor who stands eagerly waiting.

                       CHIEF FACTOR
          Very good.
                                                            45


                    COOKIE
          Good morning, sir. Here you go.

King-Lu holds out his hand for payment. The Chief Factor
gives Cookie his money.

The Chief Factor eats.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          I'm entertaining a small group next
          week. The captain of the Ruby is
          coming for tea. I'm tired of his
          jests about the savagery of life on
          the frontier. Do you know what a
          clafoutis is?

                    COOKIE
          I do.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          Could you make one? A good one? He
          loves a clafoutis. I'd like to
          humiliate him.

                    COOKIE
          Without fresh raspberries or
          apricots, I'm not sure...

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          Have you tried the bilberry?

                    COOKIE
          Out of season, I believe.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          There are still blueberries on the
          bush. I would pay handsomely for a
          proper blueberry clafoutis.

                    COOKIE
          It's a simple enough cake. If the
          blueberry is available, I'm sure I
          can make one.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          Capital. Saturday then. A
          clafoutis. We'll be dining at my
          residence. You know it's
          whereabouts?

                     COOKIE
              (on the spot)
          I think I've passed it or know of
          it--
                                                               46


                     CHIEF FACTOR
              (departing)
          Tea time.

The Chief Factor ambles back to the fort with a spring in his
step.


EXT. WOODS NEAR KING-LU'S HUTCH - AFTERNOON

Cookie hunts. Into his basket go berries that he tickles from
a bush.


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - NIGHT

Cookie mixes the ingredients of the clafoutis in a bowl. He
pours the batter into a pan.

As Cookie works, King-Lu lays on his bed talking.

                    KING-LU
          The hotels in Saint Francisco are
          grand. We can't compete on that
          scale. But regular travelers need
          shelter, too. A room with a bed,
          that's all. A few rooms near the
          sea. That's a start. And if we
          choose the site very well, we can
          add the garden and the corn rows--

King-Lu trails off, lost in his imaginings.

Cookie puts the clafoutis into their make-shift oven.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          This is a dangerous game we're
          playing here. The Chief Factor has
          a delicate palate. He'll taste his
          milk in there eventually.

Cookie comes and sits near King-Lu.

                    COOKIE
          We can't say no. He'd be
          suspicious.

                    KING-LU
          Where does he think the milk is
          coming from?

                    COOKIE
          Some people can't imagine being
          stolen from. They're too strong.
                                                              47


Cookie wanders to stand in the open doorway.

                    KING-LU
          Let's hope he's one of those.

Cookie stares up at the clouds moving across the moon.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          How much will we charge?

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          20?

A gentle owl calls somewhere in the night.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          25.


INT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - SOON - AFTERNOON

The GUESTS are collected in the living room.

An American CAPTAIN (n� Ulysses Welt), dressed in nautical
garb; a prominent Multnomah leader, TOTILLICUM, in local
regalia; and his wife, ILLCHE, in a combination of local and
foreign dress.

The CHIEF FACTOR (n� Cheston Plumb) is also there, and the
Factor's wife, CELESTE, a native woman.

A CAT drinks from a small porcelain bowl of milk.

It's a stiff party. They gather around a table with a nice
table cloth, linens, a bouquet of flowers, a glass decanter.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          Hmm, sounds like quite a situation,
          indeed. And in the end, how many
          lashes did you order?

Out the window, Cookie and King-Lu can be seen making their
way up the long path leading to the house. Cookie carries the
cake.

                    CAPTAIN
          Twenty. It was a memorable day for
          that man.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          A fine number. But for mutiny? It
          seems conservative.
                                                              48


                    CAPTAIN
          More than twenty and he would have
          been useless the remainder of the
          voyage.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          He was a young hand?

                    CAPTAIN
          Not so young.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          You see, here is the rub. When one
          factors the loss of labor from the
          punished hand versus the gain of
          labor from the hands who witness
          the punishment, a stricter
          punishment can sometimes become the
          more advisable path.

Cookie and King-Lu near the residence.

                    CHIEF FACTOR (CONT'D)
          Sometimes a properly rendered death
          is even useful in the ultimate
          accounting. It can be a vastly
          motivating spectacle for the
          indolent, let alone the mutinous.

Cookie and King-Lu arrive.

A knock at the door.

                    CAPTAIN
          Fair enough. But some calculations
          can never truly be made.

A SERVANT lets Cookie and King-Lu in the front door and leads
them to the living room.

                     CHIEF FACTOR
              (his back to his guests)
          No, there you are wrong, Captain.
          Any question that can't be
          calculated is not worth asking.

The Chief Factor turns to greet Cookie with some pleasure.

                    CHIEF FACTOR (CONT'D)
          Ah, here he is. Our baker. A baker
          as fine as any you'll find on the
          continent, captain, you'll see.
          Bring the clafoutis over here,
          Cookie. Show the captain.
                                                             49


Cookie brings the cake over. The servant leaves.

The Captain and Chief Factor gather around a small round
table where the cake has been placed. The men admire his
handiwork.

                     CAPTAIN
              (looking at Cookie)
          Indeed, it is a fine looking cake
          Mister...

                      COOKIE
          Figowitz.

                    CAPTAIN
          What brought you to the Oregon
          Territory, Mister Figowitz?

                    COOKIE
          Chance. I hired on with a trapping
          company.

                    CAPTAIN
          Ashley's men?

                    COOKIE
          No. A lesser crew.

                    CAPTAIN
          They're trapping out the whole map.
          Won't be any pelts here much
          longer.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          I disagree. The beaver are endless.

                     KING-LU
              (standing in the doorway)
          When I got here, there were beaver
          everywhere. Whole cities of beaver.
          Living like people in row houses in
          New York. Smart animals, the
          beaver.

They ignore King-Lu. TOTILLICUM moves from his chair near
King-Lu over to join the Captain and Chief Factor.

                    CAPTAIN
          In any case, fashions are changing
          in Paris. The beaver hat is on the
          wane.
                                                         50


                    CHIEF FACTOR
          The market in China is strong. The
          beaver will always find a home.
          It's too beautiful, too supple.

Totillicum isn't following.

Celeste translates between the men.

                    CHIEF FACTOR (CONT'D)
          He's saying the men in Paris are
          favoring new hats this season. They
          no longer want beaver fur. I'm
          saying the beaver is forever.

Totillicum responds. Celeste translates.

                     CELESTE
          He can't understand why the white
          men hunt so much beaver and never
          eat the tail. The tail is
          delicious.

                    CAPTAIN
          Maybe I will. I'm sick to death of
          salmon already. You can tell him
          that.

An awkward pause. Thankfully, the servant brings tea.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          Ah, here we are.

Tea is poured for the guests, including Cookie.

                    CHIEF FACTOR (CONT'D)
          Chinese black tea. Very subtle.
          Cream?

                       CAPTAIN
          Thank you.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          Enjoy the cream. My cow gives only
          the smallest amount. She's a lonely
          girl, I'm afraid.

                    CAPTAIN
          You have a cow?

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          She arrived only a month ago. Sans
          husband, I'm afraid. I hope to have
          a mate for her within the year.
                                                            51


                    CAPTAIN
          She's the only cow in the region?

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          For at least five hundred miles in
          any direction. Would you like to
          meet her? Let's have a walk. Shall
          we?

Cookie is clearly invited, too.

The men leave the room.

The women immediately become more relaxed.


EXT. COW MEADOW - LATE AFTERNOON

The men walk from the house to the meadow.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          ... What are the fashions in Paris
          this year, captain?

                    CAPTAIN
          The ladies are moving away from the
          empire silhouette this year. They
          are favoring fuller skirts and
          visible corseting. For the men,
          broad shoulders and puffed sleeves.
          Trousers for smart day wear,
          breeches in court and the country.
          As for colors: canary yellow and
          turkey red are the colors du jour.

Without taking much interest, Totillicum lets the nonsensical
chatter float around him.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          History moves so quickly in Paris.

                    CAPTAIN
          So quickly it wears itself out. It
          never reaches here at all.

The cow stands alone, chewing grass.

                    CAPTAIN (CONT'D)
          She looks well enough.

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          And yet she barely produces.
                                                             52


                    CAPTAIN
          What's her provenance?

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          A good line. Half Alderney, of
          Isigny, half Froment du Leon, from
          the province of Brittany.

The cow edges towards Cookie. The cow lows softly.

The cow nuzzles Cookie's hand and arm. Cookie pats her flank
and she lows some more.

Totillicum, the Chief Factor and the Captain watch Cookie
petting the cow.

King-Lu watches them watching.

                    CAPTAIN
          She seems to have an affection for
          you Mr. Figowitz.

Cookie becomes self conscious and stops petting the cow.

                     CAPTAIN (CONT'D)
              (amused)
          She is a very fine cow.


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - NIGHT

Cookie and King-Lu drink whiskey.

                    KING-LU
          Froment du Leon, from the province
          of Brittany? The cow's got better
          breeding than me. A royal cow.

                    COOKIE
          I think we should halt awhile. I
          think the Captain sensed something.

                    KING-LU
          Now is our time. Another cow is on
          the way. And more cows after that.

                    COOKIE
          The Chief Factor...

                    KING-LU
          ... is a fool. Paris this, London
          that. He misses everything right
          under his nose. What kind of woman
          is he?
                                                             53


Cookie doesn't respond.

King-Lu feels a little abashed, realizing he's somehow
bruised his friend.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          Men like us, Cookie, we have to
          make our own way. There are no
          empire silhouettes and colors du
          jour for us. We have to take what
          we can when the taking is good.

                    COOKIE
          I know.

                    KING-LU
          We'll sell a little longer and then
          we'll make our way south. We
          haven't even begun, Cookie. This is
          only the time before the beginning.
          We'll be through it soon.

Cookie drinks, reluctantly agreeing.


INT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE / KITCHEN - NIGHT

A large CAT eats from a plate of the evenings left-overs.

The Chief Factor's servant grabs the cat by the scuff of his
neck and tosses him out the kitchen door, into the night.


EXT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The cat lands with a thud on the wooden floor outside the
house. The door closes behind him.


INT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The servant moves through the small clapboard residence,
extinguishing candles with a brass snuffer, closing curtains,
retrieving an empty glass.

The CAPTAIN snores on a daybed, spending the night.


EXT. COW MEADOW - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The cow is a little skittish. She shuffles away from Cookie.

                    COOKIE
          There, there. Shhhh.
                                                               54


The milk sprays into the basket. Shhh. Shhh.

Cookie milks.


INT. SERVANT'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The servant undresses. He neatly hangs his uniform over the
back of a near-by chair.

He slips on his night gown.

He carries a glass lantern over to his bedside table, opens a
drawer and pulls out a small toy.


EXT. TREE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

In his tree, King-Lu watches the shadows from above.

Below in the meadow, Cookie milks.

Over at the house, a small flicker of light from a single
window.


INT. SERVANT'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

By lantern light, the servant lies in bed playing with his
small toy. He tilts the little wooden box from side to side
until a tiny ball rolls into one of the holes.

He lowers his toy and lies listening, thinking. Finally, he
gets out of bed, putting on his boots.


EXT. TREE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

King-Lu watches the small light move from one room in the
house to the next. The back door opens and out steps the
Chief Factor's servant, holding his lantern.


EXT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The servant peers into the darkness.

                    SERVANT
          Psst. (Whispering) Come on back.
          Come on back you stupid cat. Psst.
          Psst.

He shines his light about the area, landing on the cat. The
cat's eyes open wide.
                                                              55


                    SERVANT (CONT'D)
          Ah, there you are...

The cat runs into the night.

                    SERVANT (CONT'D)
          Psst. Psst.


EXT. TREE - CONTINUOUS

King-Lu gives the warning call.

                    KING-LU
          Who..


EXT. COW MEADOW - CONTINUOUS

                    KING-LU
          Who...

Cookie stops milking.


EXT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The servant walks further towards the meadow.

                    SERVANT
          Inside before you get me in
          trouble.

A CRACKING SOUND FROM THE MEADOW.

The Servant holds his light out in the direction of the cow.

                    SERVANT (CONT'D)
          Who's there?


EXT. TREE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

King-Lu keeps very still.


EXT. COW MEADOW - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie is hunched low behind the cow.

The meadow and surrounding woods are as silent as they can
be.
                                                               56


EXT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The servant stands weary, holding his lantern higher...

Another long CRACK...


EXT. COW MEADOW - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie is startled by a loud thud followed by a thrashing,
clunking tumble

                     KING-LU (OS)
              (groaning)
          Argh!

Cookie looks back towards King-Lu's perch and sees the jagged
end of the tree where the branch once was.


EXT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The servant runs inside the house.


EXT. COW MEADOW / TREE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie abandons the basket and stool and goes to King-Lu.

                     COOKIE
              (whispering)
          Are you all right?

King-Lu grunts.

                     KING-LU
              (in pain)
          Shhh.


EXT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

In his nightgown and boots, the servant runs back outside,
and across the yard in another direction, towards a bunk
house.


INT. BUNK HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The servant pushes open the door and kicks the man sleeping
on the bottom bunk.

                    LLOYD
          What?
                                                               57


                    SERVANT
          Something, someone in the meadow!

                    LLOYD
          Who?

                    SERVANT
          Attackers. All around.

A SET OF LEGS fall down from the bunk above Lloyd, knocking
him in the head.

                    LLOYD
          Goddamn it, Thomas!

                    SERVANT
          I woke the house. Get dressed,
          hurry!

The servant rushes out in the same flurry he came in.

Lloyd pulls on his pants. Grabs his guns. Thomas jumps down
from the upper bunk and starts putting on his boots.

                    LLOYD
          Where the hell do you think you're
          going?

Lloyd laughs at the idea of it. He pushes Thomas in the head.


EXT. COW MEADOW NEAR THE TREE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie and King-Lu crouch in fear. King-Lu in pain, too. He
clutches his shoulder, getting his breath back.

                    COOKIE
          Can you move? We have to go!

The cow is between them and the house.


EXT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

In his socks and nightshirt, the Chief Factor comes out of
the house with his gun in hand. Followed by the Captain.


EXT. COW MEADOW - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

King-Lu holds his hand up to stop Cookie from talking.

                    CHIEF FACTOR (OS)
          You there. Come out!
                                                               58


Cookie and King-Lu stare at each other in silent, appalled
communication.

The Chief Factor fires his gun.

Time to run. Cookie and King-Lu get to their feet and make a
run for it.


EXT. CHIEF FACTOR'S BACK PORCH / MEADOW - CONTINUOUS -NIGHT

The Chief Factor and the Captain run across the meadow to
where the cow stands.

Lloyd joins them.


EXT. BUNK HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Through an opening in the bunk house, Thomas watches the men
as they cross the meadow.


EXT. CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE / COW MEADOW - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The Chief Factor, Captain and Lloyd arrive at the cow,
followed by the servant, out of breath, carrying holsters,
guns and the Chief Factor's pants.

The Chief factor puts on his pants.

Cookie's milking stool and bucket lay on the ground. Amused,
the Captain rights the stool with his boot.

                    CAPTAIN
          It would appear someone has been
          milking your cow.

                     CHIEF FACTOR
              (seeing the stool)
          Mr. Figowitz!


EXT. WOODS NEAR CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie and King-Lu make their way through the brush.

The sound of a distant gun shot.


EXT. WOODS NEAR CLIFF - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie and King-Lu run.
                                                              59


Cookie bends onto the path leading home.

But King-Lu grabs him.

                    KING-LU
          No. Not home. Keep going.

They run deeper into the woods.


EXT. WOODS / CLEARING / CLIFF - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

They come to a clearing before a cliff.

Down below is a rushing river. The moonlight shines in the
current.

Behind them, rising sounds.

Without a word, they agree to jump.

King-Lu runs and jumps off the cliff into the night.

Cookie runs but is too afraid. He doesn't jump.

He hears the splash of King-Lu's landing, followed by the
voices of the approaching men.


EXT. WOODS NEAR CLIFF - CONTINUOUS

Cookie crawls and hides among the ferns.


EXT. WOODS / CLEARING / CLIFF - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The Chief Factor, Captain and Lloyd appear and stop on a
ridge above Cookie's hiding place.

                       THE CAPTAIN
          Which way?

                    LLOYD
          The deer path goes that way. But
          the river path is over there.

                     CHIEF FACTOR
              (stomping around)
          Stealing my milk. What we did to
          that savage when he took my
          chalice, we'll do ten times--

Lloyd holds up his hand. They all listen.
                                                             60


Lloyd looks in the direction of the cliff.

He runs down towards the cliff, passing Cookie's hiding
place.

Lloyd peers over the edge into the darkness.

                    LLOYD
          There's one. Crossing the river.


EXT. POV RIVER BELOW CLIFF - CONTINUOUS

King-Lu splashes and reaches a clearing on the opposite side
of the river.


EXT. WOODS - UNDER A BUSH - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie lays low and still as Lloyd yells to the men standing
above him.

                    THE CAPTAIN
          Which way now? Or will we jump?

                    CHIEF FACTOR
          We'll overtake him on foot. We'll
          use the path downriver. Lloyd,
          hurry along. We follow behind. The
          rest will find us soon enough.

The men give chase.

When things settle down, Cookie creeps from the bush.

He heads in the other direction.

Behind him, the known world recedes.


EXT. WOODS - ELSEWHERE - NIGHT

The forest is dark.

Cookie hikes, fearful.

Cookie hurries through the ominous forest, fleeing faster
into the forest.

The trees cover the moon's light, the ground is dark beneath
his feet.

He trips over a fallen branch, rises and moves quickly along.
                                                               61


A few yards later, he falls down a narrow ravine, his head
landing on a rock.


EXT. RAVINE - NIGHT

Cookie is crumpled at the base of the ravine, his head
bleeding.

Pain and darkness all around.

The silence of the forest rises. The smallest sounds press
in.

FADE OUT


INT. COTTAGE - PRE DAWN

FADE UP

Cookie awakens in a humble cottage. His face is bruised and
swollen.

Through his dimming consciousness An OLDER COUPLE comes into
view.

Across the room, the man sits in a rocking chair, smoking a
pipe. The woman brews a poultice on the stove. They have
white hair, shabby but dignified clothes, and an air of
almost spooky peace.

The room darkens, Cookie is out again.

FADE OUT


INT. COTTAGE - MORNING

FADE UP

Cookie again opens his eyes. Through a watery softness, he
sees the couple hovering over him. They appear Hawaiian. The
woman offers him a bowl of steaming fluid.

Cookie smells it and recoils.

                     WOMAN
           Drink, drink. It will make you feel
           better.

Cookie drinks, wincing. He's thirsty.
                                                              62


                      COOKIE
               (discombobulated)
           Where am I?

                     WOMAN
           No one will find you here.

                     COOKIE
           Who are you?

                     WOMAN
           Have a drink. You'll feel better...

Cookie takes a few more sips, then rests his throbbing head.

He struggles against sleep but the room quickly dims.

FADE OUT


INT. COTTAGE - DAY

FADE UP

Cookie awakens. He is alone.

Cookie touches his swollen face, his cracked head.

He looks around, trying to focus.

A square mirror hangs on a post across from his bed. Through
it, he can see the old man outside a window. He is doing tai
chi. The motions are slow and mysterious.

The old woman is at the stove.

Cookie watches her from his sick bed as she stirs a large
pot, her shadow large on the cottage walls.

Cookie speaks to the woman from his sick bed. The sound of
his own voice rings in his head.

                     COOKIE
           I... I need to find my friend.

                     WOMAN
           You are safe here. Nothing can harm
           you.

The man continues his slow, deliberate motions in the mirror.

                     COOKIE
           But... my friend doesn't know where
           I am.
                                                               63


                     WOMAN
           He wants you to rest. If he is a
           true friend.

Cooke rests his troubled head on his pillow.

DISSOLVE


EXT. WOODS / RIVER SIDE - DAY

King Lu emerges from the woods.

He looks around to get his bearings. He walks onto the sand,
takes of his socks and boots and walks on the soft sand.


EXT. RIVER SIDE - CONTINUOUS - DAY

King-Lu comes to a sandy hill. In the distance, he sees a
canoe pass along the river.

As comes to the top of the small hill, he spots a beached
canoe.

He walks over and ponders the canoe. A small, wooden canoe,
unattended.

No one else is around.

King-Lu goes closer to the canoe and admires it, sizing up
the situation.

He wonders if and how to steal the canoe, when a Multnomah
man, CHONACHONA, emerges from the brush. With him is A LARGE
DOG.

Chonachona stands behind King-Lu watching grimly.

King-Lu looks over his shoulder to make sure no one is around
and sees Chonachona.

King-Lu greets him in the trade jargon. They speak in the
shared trade jargon.

                     KING-LU
           Good day. Is this your canoe? I
           need to get downriver. Can you take
           me?

                     CHONACHONA
           I'm not going downriver.
                                                               64


                    KING-LU
          Can I pay you?

                    CHONACHONA
          How much would you pay?

                    KING-LU
          I don't have shells on me...

                     CHONACHONA
          A knife?

                    KING-LU
          I don't have a knife.

                     CHONACHONA
          A bell?

King-Lu doesn't understand.

                    CHONACHONA (CONT'D)
          One of those metal cups with the
          little tongue inside and when you
          shake it it makes the sound: dinga
          ling a ling?

                    KING-LU
          No, I don't have a bell.

King-Lu looks himself over, checking his pockets. Nothing.

                    CHONACHONA
          Those buttons.

Chonachona nods at his buttons.

King-Lu looks down. Relieved, he pulls all the buttons from
his coat.

Chonachona seems pleased enough.


EXT. RIVER - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

The dog rides up front as they slide over the water.

Chonachona paddles steadily from the rear.

King-Lu is relieved to be moving.


EXT. RIVER - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

They continue paddling along.
                                                               65


Chonachona is uncommunicative.

                    KING-LU
          I'm going near the fort. Not to the
          fort. But near.

Chonachona seems to hear.

He keeps paddling.

In the distance: another canoe.

The Multnomah man sees the distant canoe. He raises a hand in
greeting.

The ROWER in the distant canoe raises a hand in greeting.

They call out to each other over the water.

Chonachona alters course.

They head for the other canoe.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          Wait. What are you doing? I need to
          get downriver. Quickly.

                    CHONACHONA
          Don't worry.

They continue towards the other canoe.

King-Lu has no way out.


EXT. RIVER - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

King-Lu and the Chonachona pull up next to the other canoe.

In the other canoe is a young Multnomah man, WATUTUM, with a
cargo of acorns.

The two Multnomah men talk in their   native tongue. Watutum
tells Chonachona that two women are   collecting drying salmon
downriver a mile, on the other side   of the river, and there's
a young woman there that was asking   about Coalpo.

                     WATUTUM
          There are some women drying salmon
          a mile upriver. The daughter of
          Cultee is with them. She was asking
          about you.
                                                          66


                    CHONACHONA
          The older daughter?

                    WATUTUM
          No, the middle daughter. The
          daughter of Cultee and his wife
          from over the mountain.

                    CHONACHONA
          Mountains to the south?

                    WATUTUM
          East.

                    CHONACHONA
          I don't know her.

                     WATUTUM
          She knows you. She kept asking
          about you.

                    CHONACHONA
          Maybe I do know her. Maybe I should
          go say hello.

King-Lu waits in anger and disbelief.

At last, the other canoe starts to move.

And King-Lu's canoe follows.

                    KING-LU
          What are we doing?

They head for the opposite shore.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          You're taking me downstream. I paid
          you.

                    CHONACHONA
          I will. I will.


EXT. OPPOSITE RIVER BANK - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

The canoes beach. The dog jumps out and goes to shore.

The Multnomah men get out.

King-Lu grudgingly waits.
                                                               67


EXT. RIVER SLOUGH - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

TWO WOMEN dry salmon on the shore. Another woman does the
elaborate task of making an acorn polenta.

As the Multnomah men come ashore, they call greetings to the
women, who vaguely greet them back.

From the canoe King-Lu watches as his ride goes over and
strikes up a conversation with the younger women, STIZA. She
doesn't seem that interested, though.

Frustrated, King-Lu gets out of the canoe and goes up to wait
on the shore.


EXT. CANOE - CONTINUOUS - AFTERNOON

The afternoon is wearing on.

King-Lu paces on the beach, watching Coalpo talk to STIZA.
Chonachona is telling her about a trip to the Celilo market
last year.

                    CHONACHONA
          ... one man from way down south,
          near Shasta, had twenty horses.
          They were beautiful horses. He
          counted them every morning. He
          didn't want to lose any. One
          morning he counted only nineteen.
          He thought someone stole his horse.
          He went all around the market and
          accused everyone...


EXT. RIVER SHORE - CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON

Watutum, meanwhile, is taking a nap under a tree.


EXT. RIVER SLOUGH - CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON

King-Lu approaches Chonachona, watching as he hovers around
the young woman dealing with her salmon.

She walks away from Chonachona and he stands near ANOTHER
WOMAN and starts talking to her. He wonders why the first
woman didn't seem that interested. He'd heard she was asking
about him. The woman keeps working, and denies knowing
anything about anything.

                    CHONACHONA
          I was talking. And she walked away.
                                                               68


Stiza's friend shrugs.

                    COALPO
          I wasn't done with the story.

                    STIZA'S FRIEND
          It took a long time.

King-Lu waits pacing on the beach, while the two continue
talking. It goes on and on until King-Lu can't stand it any
longer.

                    KING-LU
          I need to go upriver! Take me or
          give me back my buttons!

Hearing King-Lu's voice, Chonachona looks at King-Lu without
expression. He takes the buttons from his pouch and hands two
of them back to King-Lu.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          All of them.

                    CHONACHONA
          I took you part way.

                    KING-LU
          I'm not any closer than I was!

                     CHONACHONA
          You are.

The woman looks at the buttons in King-Lu's hand.

                     KING-LU
              (his hand open)
          I'm not. I'm on the wrong side of
          the river. Give me all of them.
          This wasn't the deal.

Reluctantly, Chonachona gives King-Lu back the rest of the
buttons.

King-Lu is despondent.

The woman says something to Coalpo. She tells him the young
woman he was trying to impress would definitely like those
buttons. He asks if she's serious. She says yes, for sure.

                    STIZA'S FRIEND
          Stiza would like those. She has a
          collection.
                                                              69


                    CHONACHONA
          A button collection?

                    STIZA'S FRIEND
          Those would be a big deal to her.
          She has a box full.

Chonachona turns back to King-Lu.

                    CHONACHONA
          Give me the buttons back. I'll take
          you downriver.

                    KING-LU
          I need to go right now.

                    CHONACHONA
          Good. Let's go.

                    KING-LU
          No waiting. No other stops.

                    CHONACHONA
          Fine.

                     KING-LU
              (sensing his new advantage)
          I'll give you three buttons.

                    CHONACHONA
          All the buttons.

                    KING-LU
          Three buttons. I'll give you two
          more when we get near the fort.

                    CHONACHONA
          Three buttons.

                    KING-LU
          Depends on how fast we get there.
          Fast, three. Slow, one.

Chonachona ponders, displeased. He looks at the woman. She
tells him again that the young woman he likes really likes
that kind of button.

Grudgingly, Chonachona agrees.


EXT. RIVER - LATE AFTERNOON

The canoe skims across the water.
                                                               70


King-Lu grimly watches the horizon.


INT. COTTAGE - NIGHT

Cookie rises. His head throbs.

The couple sleeps.

Agonizingly, he leans over to put on his shoes.

He creeps outside.


EXT. COTTAGE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie makes his way through the darkness to the edge of the
clearing.

He stands before the wall of trees.

He stares blearily into the blackness, hearing the howls of
hungry animals. Nearby wolves. Distant coyotes.

The trees stretch and bend taking on the shape of the wind.
The eyes of many beasts shine in the rolling waves of the
ferns and tall brush.

Afraid, Cookie can't force himself to go farther.

He turns, defeated, and stumbles back to the cottage.


INT. COTTAGE - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Cookie returns to bed, exhausted by his effort. His head
aches.

He closes his eyes but he can't sleep.

He hears stirring.

The old woman rises to tend the fire. He sees her shadowy
shape moving across the room.

She turns towards Cookie. Her face is the skeleton of a cow.

Cookie is petrified.

The woman looks over at Cookie.

Cookie tries to rise but he can't.

His vision is blurred.
                                                             71


The world fades away.


EXT. WOODS NEAR KING-LU'S HUTCH - MORNING

King-Lu creeps through the brush.


EXT. WOODS NEAR KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS

King-Lu pauses at a bush. Through the bush he can see his
hutch.

No one is there.

King-Lu waits, making sure the coast is clear.

At last, King-Lu exits the bush. He goes to the hutch.


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - NOON

King-Lu approaches the hutch.

Before anything, he stops at the cottonwood tree.

He gets a round of wood to stand on to retrieve the money
sack from the hole.

He can't quite reach it. He pulls it part way out and it
snags on a branch. Now the bag is hanging from the tree.

He tries to unsnag it but he pauses, suddenly alert.

He hears something.

He looks into the distance. He jumps down and kicks away the
round of wood.

Just in time, he scurries away and hides back in the bush he
just came out of.

THREE COMPANY SOLDIERS, led by Lloyd, are marching in his
direction.

They enter King-Lu's abode.

King-Lu can hear things breaking, smashing, thumping around.
A few items fly out of the door and window.

                    LLOYD
          He hauls timber like a bandit, he
          does.
                                                               72


                     SOLDIER
              (half hearing)
          Heart? Like the red, beating heart?
          In your ribs?

King-Lu watches as the soldiers finally exit, laughing.

They loiter for a moment.

Lloyd goes and pisses on the cottonwood tree, the money bag
hanging over his head.

                    LLOYD
          Hart. Like a deer, a red deer. I
          believe. Jon Hart. A cheater by any
          spelling. I've skunked him every
          game regardless. He won't play me
          anymore. He's not a worthy
          opponent. He prefers to discard
          only one card to the crib. Abysmal.

                       SOLDIER
          One card?

                     LLOYD
              ((buttoning up his pants)
          An archaic rule. He prefers the old
          ways. He's an odd man. Wrong in
          many ways. A poor adversary in Sir
          John Suckling's noble game.

                    SOLDIER
          Cribbage players are in short
          supply in this hemisphere.

                    LLOYD
          And I suffer for it daily.

At last, they disappear.

King-Lu remains in hiding, crouching in fear and
contemplation.


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - SOON - EARLY AFTERNOON

Finally, King-Lu approaches the now-ruined hutch.


INT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - EARLY AFTERNOON

King-Lu goes inside.
                                                               73


The house is a shambles. He begins to put a few things in
bags.

He lifts Cookie's broken butter bowl. He puts it aside.

He picks up Cookie's whisk, also broken.

He sets down the bags. No point in saving any of it.

He picks up a fire poker.


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - EARLY AFTERNOON

He uses the fire poker to fetch the money bag.

                        KING-LU
             Who-who?

No answer.

And he wanders into the woods.

                        KING-LU   (OS) (CONT'D)
             Who who?


INT. COTTAGE - EARLY AFTERNOON

Cookie awakens.

He is alive.

He is also alone. The old couple are gone.

In the light of day, the cottage is less terrifying. The fire
is out. There is no sign of the night's horror. But a weird
emptiness.

Cookie rises. He looks around. The cottage is dusty and
cobwebs cover the furniture as if they haven't been touched
in a very long time.

He sees a jug on the table.

He goes to drink. But it's dry.

He goes to the door. He slips out.


EXT. COTTAGE - CONTINUOUS - EARLY AFTERNOON

The yard is overgrown with weeds and vines. The whole yard is
unkept. No sign of the couple here, either.
                                                              74


Cookie pauses at the outskirts of the cottage's clearing. He
turns to look back at it.

The feeling in the clearing is eerie. The wind is alive,
moving leaves and needles on the dry ground.

It has the feel of a place that has been deserted for a long
time.

Cookie creeps away into the woods. The boughs of the trees
close behind him. He is leaving for good.


EXT. STREAM - DAY

Thomas sits on a log in the woods near a stream. He is still,
holding a rifle in his lap.

He watches Cookie who is across the stream.

Unaware he is being watched, Cookie lays on the ground
drinking the cool water. He washes the dark dry blood from
his head.

He stares into the stream. As the water stills, his
reflection takes shape. He touches his sore head, rubs his
jaw.

Thomas remains still and unnoticed.

Cookie gets up and goes back into the woods.

Thomas watches him go.


EXT. WOODS / BLUFF - AFTERNOON

Cookie climbs through the forest.

He comes to a bluff with a view. He's careful not to leave
the cover of the forest.

He can see hills dense with trees. A smudge of smoke rises in
the distance.


EXT. WOODS NEAR BLUFF - AFTERNOON

Cookie hikes into familiar ground.

He intuits his way.

Fearful and glancing over his shoulder.
                                                              75


EXT. WOODS NEAR CHIEF FACTOR'S HOUSE - LATER AFTERNOON

Cookie drifts close to the cow meadow.

Through the trees he can see the cow surrounded by a new,
small fence.

The cow raises her head from chewing; she looks towards
Cookie; then back to the grass.

Cookie keeps moving.


EXT. NEAR KING-LU'S HUTCH - LATER AFTERNOON

Cookie comes within sight of the hutch.

Is he dreaming? He isn't sure.


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - LATER AFTERNOON

The hutch has clearly been violated. Scattered possessions
litter the ground.

Cookie goes over to the cottonwood tree.

He approaches the knothole.

The money is gone.

He's dismayed.

Cautiously, he enters the hutch.


INT. / EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON

With sorrow, Cookie surveys the damage.

Broken furniture, tangled rugs, spilled supplies. Already, an
air of dilapidation and abandonment is settling in.

He hears a faint noise and drops to the floor. He crawls over
to the window, and takes a peep.

He spots motion among the trees, his head throbs, his double
vision returns.

At last: a figure emerges.

Is it King-Lu? It is King-Lu.
                                                               76


King-Lu holds the sack of money in one hand and a jug in the
other. He looks at his home with a mournful expression. He
doesn't come any closer, but simply watches, shaking his
head.

Cookie stands and goes to the door.

The men see each other.


EXT. KING-LU'S HUTCH - CONTINUOUS - LATE AFTERNOON

They both smile. Their happiness is overflowing.

Silently, joyfully, King-Lu closes the distance. They stand
in the open doorway and embrace.

                    COOKIE
          I thought you were gone.

                    KING-LU
          I thought you were gone.

                    COOKIE
          I'm only late.

King-Lu's smile fades.

                    KING-LU
          You're hurt. It's not safe here. We
          need to get away. Right now.

They start off, putting the ruined home behind them.


EXT. WOODS NEAR KING-LU'S HUTCH - TWILIGHT

They walk together.

                    KING-LU
          There's a port at the mouth of the
          river. We'll go downstream and
          catch the first clipper south. How
          about that?

                    COOKIE
          That sounds fine.

                    KING-LU
          You made it all right?

Cookie feebly nods. He concentrates on walking.

King-Lu looks back, concerned.
                                                               77


EXT. WOODS / SANDY TRAIL - SOON - DUSK

Cookie is having trouble keeping up with King-Lu.

King-Lu waits, increasingly concerned. Cookie is clearly
hurting.

King-Lu gives Cookie the water jug.

Cookie drinks.

King-Lu watches him, calculating the time, the distance yet
to go. Cookie is obviously in need of rest.

                    KING-LU
          This is a good place to rest. We
          should stop. No one can see us
          here.

                    COOKIE
          We haven't gone very far.

                    KING-LU
          We need to rest.

                    COOKIE
          I'm fine. We should be on our way.

                    KING-LU
          We should travel at night. Better
          to stop now and wait for nightfall.
          This is a good place. Lie down.

Cookie accepts the argument, whether true or not.

                    KING-LU (CONT'D)
          Good. Lie here. On the needles.
          I'll keep first watch.

Exhausted, Cookie lies down on the dry needles. Immediately,
he falls asleep.

King-Lu sits down next to Cookie, realizing he too is
exhausted. He lets out a deep sigh.


EXT. WOODS / CLEARING - NIGHT

King-Lu stares at the trees, keeping watch. He strains to
hear the world outside their spot.

In the far distance, he hears the faintest calls. Or does he?
He can't tell. He sees a bird. It's only a bird. They are
alone.
                                                            78


King-Lu looks at Cookie sleeping.

He looks at trees, feeling the money sack in his hand,
weighing his options.

At last, King-Lu puts the money bag on the ground like a
pillow. He lies down beside Cookie.

                    KING-LU
          We'll go soon. I've got you.

They clasp hands.

King-Lu closes his eyes. In a moment, he's asleep.

An owl calls.
 