


                              TRAP LIVIN


                                  by

                             Sabrina Hall




                (Based on, Adaptation of Out da Trap CD)




PDProductions
 FADE IN:


INT. - BACK ALLEY - NIGHT

On the dark street of Jacksonville, the pavement is wet
because of all the rain that day. We hear the cars splashing
on the wet pavement.

We hear a man running through the streets breathing very hard
and gun shots ringing through the air. MICAIAH, late 20's
physically fit, dark brown skin, clean cut shaven, tries hard
to get away from some men that is trying to Kill him.

                     THUG 1
           I know he went this way.

They look down one alley and then the other

                     THUG 2
           There he is.

BANG BANG they shoot the guns his direction.

                     THUG 1
           I think I shot him.

                     THUG 2
           Man (a beat) you missed him.   You
           sorry.

He looks down the alley again.

                     THUG 2 (CONT'D)
           Go get the car

shaking the gun in his hand and with all security he says:

                     THUG 2 (CONT'D)
           Let me handle this. I'll catch him
           and put him out of his miseries.

They part ways. Determined to find their target he walks
slowly and precisely down the alley. His heart racing faster
and faster as he tries to catch his breath

As he is running after the another man he sees him through
the buildings and start to shoot again.

BANG BANG BANG
                                                          2.


EXT. END OF THE ALLEY - NIGHT

The man notice that he has run into a dead end. With no way
out and no where to run. He starts to run back out but it is
too late.

                    THUG 2
          THERE'S NO WAY OUT CAI

He walks closer to him and puts the gun to his head.
MICAIAH realize that he has no choice but to surrender. He
put his hands up and begin to pray. He knows that the only
way out of this situation is with the Help of the Lord. The
thug puts the gun to his head...

                    MICAIAH (V.O.)
          I knew my life was going to end up
          this way. All my life I said that
          one day Someone was going to take
          me out one of these days. All of
          the dirt that I did over the years
          this was bound to happen.

We hear the gun cock back

                    THUG 2
          Any last words

                    MICAIAH (V.O.)
          And now its over.


EXT. STREETS OF JACKSONVILLE - NIGHT

We see the tall buildings most of the lights are on in the
apartments but no one is concerned about what is going on.
This is a sound the rings through the projects everyday.

We hear in the distances Bang. Bang

                                           FADE TO BLACK.


SUPER: 1978


EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY

Open Credits: We see boys hanging on the streets. A Black
Cutlass, with Spinning rims and Dark tinted windows pulls up
near the curb. The Music is blasting out of the car. The
window rolls and the Boy walks over to the car and leans in
the window.
                                                          3.


Hand the passenger something in a handshake motion and steps
back. The car drives away.


EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT

BIG MIKE, late 30's very small man. Named more for his alter
ego and not for his size, was one of the top pimps in that
area. CANDY, early 20's, cocoa brown skin, silky black hair,
is one of Big Mike main hoes.

The night was filled with the ladies walking the streets
waving down the cars trying to find potential John's. Big
Mike sat their just to make sure his women and his money was
all taken care of.


INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

We see MICAIAH, 9 years old scrawny little boy, sitting in a
chair looking out the window of his house.

Through the window: We see men selling drugs. Women standing
on the corner waving down car.

                    MICAIAH (V.O.)
          My mom was an understanding women.
          Lady Bea they called her.

BEATRICE (LADY BEA), Early 30, big boned woman, Supporting
her man in all that he do and whatever he did was her motto.


INT. KITCHEN TABLE - DAY

Lady Bea standing in the kitchen preparing breakfast for her
husband and his ladies. The table is filled with Stacks of
Pancakes, plate full of bacon and Sausages, Bowl of golden
yellow eggs scrambled, Toast

                    MICAIAH (V.O.)
          Every morning, My mom got up bright
          and early and cooked a feast good
          enough to feed a King.

We see the ladies sitting at a round table in the middle of
the kitchen floor, eating breakfast and talking about their
night of adventure.

                    CANDY
          Girl, I had this one guy who only
          wanted to watch me.
                                                             4.


                    STAR
          Watch you do what?

                    CANDY
          Whatever, I was fine with that I
          didn't want his hands touching me.
          He was dirty as hell.

They all laugh. The Children sitting at a side table
giggling at their conversation. Putting their hands over
their mouth so that they wouldn't get in trouble.

                     LADY BEA
          Alright Children Settle down. Eat
          your breakfast so that you can get
          to school.

The children straights up in their seats but still can't help
but to giggle. The ladies continue with their conversation.


INT. FOYER - NIGHT

The house is quiet finally. We see the long line of steps
leading up to the bedrooms. The walls are filled with
pictures of the children and other family members.

We see a picture of Big Mike in the hall with the words Pimp
of the Year draped over it.


INT. BOYS BEDROOMS - NIGHT

Micaiah and Daniel Has 2 set of Bunkbeds in them Both boys
sleep in the Top bunk. Room decorated in Marvel superheros.


INT. GIRLS BEDROOM - NIGHT

The Girls room painted in Pink with big flowers across the
walls. There are 2 beds in the room but the girls refuses to
sleep alone.

KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK

The knocking at the door echos through the house.

Again we hear KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK

We see a light come on in the hall way. Another knock at the
door KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA (O.S.)
          I'm coming, I'm Coming
                                                             5.


Beatrice yells as she is walking down the stair she wonders
who could possible be knocking this time of night.

She gets to the door and with a serious attitude for being
waking she yells:

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA (CONT'D)
          Who the Hell is it?

                    POLICEMAN
          Its the police ma'am

Beatrice Stops. Her heart pounding so hard its about to jump
out of her chest. She pulls her robe in closer fixes her hair
then reach for the door. She takes a deep breath in and
releases it then turns the knob.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
              Hello. May I help you.

                    POLICE WOMAN
          Yes ma'am does a ...

The female cop pulls out a tablet flips a couple of pages.

                    POLICE WOMAN (CONT'D)
          Michael Solomon live here?

While she was talking to the police the children came out of
the room and sat on the steps. Curious as to why the police
were there.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Yes, That's my husband. Come in. (A
          Beat) What's wrong?

                    POLICEMAN
          Ma'am we need you to come with us.

She instantly know that something is wrong. She sits down

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Please tell me what's wrong with my
          husband.

                    POLICEMAN
          Your husband was shot and killed
          tonight and we need you to identify
          the body.

When she heard this she scream a horrifying cry. So
horrifying that the children began to cry also. She falls to
her knees and cried
                                                          6.


                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Oh my Lord no. It can't be true it
          just can't be.

                    POLICEMAN
          Ma'am

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Are you sure you have the right
          person.

                    POLICEMAN
          Ma'am do you have anyone that you
          can leave the children here with.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Yes,

She Stands up and compose herself.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA (CONT'D)
          Please, give me a minute.

She walks up the stairs and see the children sitting on the
stairs crying.

                    YOUNG MICAIAH
          Mommy, daddy died?

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Yall children go to bed and let me
          handle this.

She knocks on the door of CANDY who was surprisingly home
because she wasn't feeling well. CANDY opens the door. She
sees that LADY BEA was crying and she it puzzled as to what
is wrong.

                    CANDY
          What's wrong Lady Bea? Why are you
          crying.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Candy, I need you (A beat). I need
          you to keep an eye on my children.
          I need to go downtown with the
          police. I will be right back.

                    CANDY
          Yes, Ma'am.

Candy gathers the children and took them back to their rooms.
                                                          7.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

We see the police car pulling off, Beatrice sitting in the
backseat crying and wiping her face.

                    MICAIAH (V.O.)
          I was 8 years old when My father
          was killed. My mom never told us
          what happen or how he died. It
          wasn't until about a couple years
          later when I over heard her telling
          my aunt what happen. She Told her
          that he and one of his girls were
          killed by a John.

We see two men fighting and a lady laying on the bed
bleeding. It appears that she has been shot. The two men
slams in to the door, then the Wall. The John hits Big Mike
in the face. Big Mike gets up and Kicks the John into the
wall.

We see the gun sitting right next to the dead girl. The John
picks it up and as Bid Mike run towards him the gun goes off.
Big Mike is shot in the chest. He falls face first next to
the dead girl.

                    MICAIAH   (V.O.)
          After that My mom   took his girls
          in. She felt that   she could keep
          them safe if they   stayed there and
          the Johns came to   them.

We see a boy sitting on a chair looking at men and women
walking upstairs heading to a room. He gets up and walk
towards the stairs as they were going into the rooms. Micaiah
starts to walk up the stairs to follow them when His mom
grabbed his arm.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Micaiah, what do you think you are
          doing.

                    MICAIAH
          Nothing mom.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          If I catch yall in the other rooms
          I will beat your behinds until they
          are purple and blue, do you hear me

                      ALL TOGETHER
          Yes ma'am
                                                             8.


But these children were not naive, they knew what was going
on in the house. Their curiosity grew more and more as the
days went by.

We see the children getting ready for school. In a far
distance we hear the squeezing of the stair floorboards.
Micaiah siblings grab their book bags and heading out the
door and down the stairs.

Micaiah Close by them but gets distracted because he notices
that Candy left her door crack a little. He backs up so that
he could see what's going on in the room.

We see a woman lying on the bed and a man standing over her.
Micaiah standing outside the room peeping through the crack
in the door. He wasn't old enough to understand the feelings
that he was having at the time but he knew that this was a
feeling that he had never felt before.

CANDY was so beautiful nice golden brown skin big beautiful
breast.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA (O.S.)
          Micaiah what are you doing down
          there

Through the crack in the door we see the woman sit up in the
bed and unzips the man's pants. Micaiah eyes widen. He knows
that he is about to see something that he had never seen
before.

His mom grabs his arm and snatch him away from the door.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA (CONT'D)
          Boy don't you hear me calling you.

She pulls the door closed and swing Micaiah towards her.

                     BEATRICE - LADY BEA (CONT'D)
          You no better then to be down here
          don't you.

                    MICAIAH
          Yes ma'am, But I didn't open the
          door it was already open

He feels telling her that would help get him out of trouble

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Honestly mom. It was already open.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          You just get your little behind to
          school and you better not be late.
                                                          9.


Micaiah ran down the stairs and out the door to meet up with
his siblings.

                       MICAIAH
          Yes, ma'am

She shakes her head because she knows that her son is growing
up and starting to become very curious.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE - DAY

As the children were walking to their school we see a man
beating up another man on the sidewalk. Pushers standing on
the corner. There were other people standing around looking
at the man being beaten to death. We see the man pulled out a
gun and fanning it around

We hear a gunshot and people screaming he has a gun.

                    MICAIAH (V.O.)
          Its like that every day in this
          neighborhood

The children scatter throughout the neighborhood and continue
on in there path.


INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

After all of the children were off to bed Lady Bea decided it
was time to talk with her son.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Micaiah, come here before you go to
          bed I need to talk with you

Micaiah knew that he was in trouble. He remembers when his
mom told them and he begin to prepare his behind for the
whipping of his life.

                    MICAIAH
          Mom, I can explain.    I saw the door
          open..

His mom cuts him off.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Stop... I not getting ready to beat
          you. Come sit down.

Micaiah sits down at the table. He still was unsure about
what was getting ready to happen.
                                                         10.


                     MICAIAH
          Mom,   I'm sorry that I...

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Son, you are 13 years old now and
          it is time for you to truly start
          helping in this house.

Micaiah looks at his mom very strange.

                    MICAIAH
          What do you mean, I do my chores
          mom.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          I mean bring in some money

                    MICAIAH
          But mom, I'm only 13 I can't get a
          job no where.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          You will work for me. Do you know
          what this is?

His mom puts something down on the table in front of Micaiah.

                    MICAIAH
          Yeah that's a joint. (He smiles)
          Weed.

Then he realize that his mom may think that its his

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Wait that's not mine momma I swear.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          I know son. I want you to start
          selling this and bring the money
          home to me. I will start you off
          with that and then we will go on to
          bigger things you understand.

Micaiah know that this is wrong. He is scared and confused,
not sure why his mom is asking him to do this.

                    MICAIAH
          But mom, If I get caught, I will
          get in trouble. I don't wanna go to
          Jail.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          You tell the white man that you
          found it.
                    (MORE)
                                                         11.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA (CONT'D)
          Don't you ever bring that kind of
          heat to this house do you
          understand?

                      MICAIAH
          Yes ma'am

Micaiah knew that he had to do what he was told.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Now go to bed and be ready to get
          out there in the morning.


EXT. SCHOOL YARD - DAY

We see the children on the school grounds waiting for the
bell to ring.

We see Micaiah an older boy he hands him something. You can
tell that he was a beginner at this because he begin to look
around to see if anyone was looking. It was very obvious as
what was going on. We hear the bell ring and the children
start heading in the building.

                    MICAIAH
          Tell your friends they can find me
          here every morning and afternoon.

The boy motion back to him and head in the school. Micaiah,
straighten his shack and head in the school.


EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT

Micaiah worked the streets well into the middle of the night.
The same streets that his father worked and was killed on is
where he spent most of his nights.


EXT. BACK ALLEY - NIGHT

We see Women and men sitting in the alley stung out on all
kinds of drugs. MICAIAH walks pass them and look with
disguise.


EXT. FRONT OF THE HOUSE - DAY

Every morning MICAIAH walked his siblings to school. We see
the children walking to school together.
                                                         12.


                    MICAIAH
          Ok. Guys have fun and I see you
          this afternoon

                     ALL TOGETHER
          Ok.   Bye Cai.

As Micaiah is heading to his school he runs into alot of his
clients that he normally sell to. This was his morning
routine. So he always made sure he had more then enough.


EXT. STREETS - DAY

We see MICAIAH and DANIEL walking and they run up on 3 boys
beating up another boy. They looked at each other because
they knew that wasn't a fair fight. They ran over and pulled
off 2 of the boys and started fighting them.

The boy that was getting beat up is now able to compose his
self and start fight the other one boy. The 3 boys knew that
now with the other 2 boys there was no way for them to win
that fight so they take off.

                      TYRONE
                (Bent over and tired) Hey
                 thanks for that.

                    MICAIAH
          What was that all about?

                    TYRONE
          I don't know they just came out of
          nowhere and told me that they
          wanted my shoes. Well I was about
          to give these up. You know what I
          mean.

                    DANIEL
          Yeah those are hot. But bruh. Was
          it worth get your butt kick ( he
          laugh a little)

                    TYRONE
          Naw, I guess not. Good thing you
          two came along. Them punks knew
          that if they would have fought me
          one at a time I will have kicked
          their behind.

                    MICAIAH
          I hear yeah. By the way My name is
          Micaiah and this is my brother
          Daniel
                                                         13.


                    TYRONE
          Nice to meet you. I'm Tyrone.    My
          friends call me Ty.

                    MICAIAH
          Nice to meet you Ty.   You new
          around here?

                    TYRONE
          Yeah my parents just moved here
          from Atlanta. We live in the house
          on the corner.

                    MICAIAH
          Well welcome to J-ville. You hang
          with me and you won't have to worry
          about these jits around here trying
          to jump you for your shoes or
          anything else.

                    TYRONE
          Cool. Cool.

The boys walk together the rest of the way home. This was the
start of a new friendship.


INT. HIGH SCHOOL HALLWAY - DAY

The halls are crowded with Students preparing for the first
day of school. Some at their lockers and others are just
standing around laughing and talking. Old Friends that Having
seen each other since the last school year, are very excited
to see their old class mates.

The first bell rings. This is a signal for the students to
let them know that they have 9 minutes to make it to class on
time. Most of the Students take advantage of that warning
and head to class.

Cai & Ty sitting back checking out the girls as they walk by.

                    MICAIAH
          I know that there got to be some
          hot honey's in here this year.

They sit back and watch but none of the girls catch their
attention. Once the halls starts to clear we see 2 girls
making their way through the crowd. Walking with their heads
high with all of the confidence in the world. They wave at
other classmates as they walk through.

Tyrone Immediately sets eyes on them. He hits Micaiah to get
his attention.
                                                         14.


                    TYRONE
          Cai, check them out.

                    MICAIAH
          Dammmmn.. Now that's what I'm
          talking about

Micaiah and Tyrone decides to go and talk to the girls. TONYA
and HARMONY are so busy putting their books in their lockers
that they didn't notice MICAIAH and TYRONE heading their way.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Hello ladies, how are you doing
          today?

TONYA and HARMONY turns around and smile at the guys.

                    TONYA
          Fine.

                    MICAIAH
          (he looks her up and down)
          That I can see. My name is Cai and
          this is my homeboy Ty.

                    HARMONY
              (In a Sarcastic Tone)
          What y'all Twins or something.

                    TYRONE
          Beautiful and funny.. I like that.

                    HARMONY
          Whatever. Tonya let's go girl.

HARMONY starts to walk away because she is not interested in
talking to the guys.

                    TONYA
          Girl Wait... I'm Tonya and this
          is..

She notice that Harmony was walking away and she pulls her
back.

                    TONYA (CONT'D)
          This is Harmony.

                    TYRONE
          Hmm sounds like music to my ears.

                    HARMONY
          (She rolls her eyes) Oh that's
          original
                                                         15.


                    TYRONE
          Baby why are you so uptight

Harmony gets upset by being called uptight and she begins to
go off on Tyrone. Micaiah uses this chance to talk with
Tonya.

                    HARMONY
          Uptight... you don't know me. How
          dare you presume to know me enough
          to call me out of my name.

                     TYRONE
          Alright calm down I'm sorry. I just
          don't understand why you are
          snapping at me. Did you forget to
          take you Volume this morning or
          something.

                    HARMONY
          See there you go again.   Tonya lets
          go.

                    TONYA
          I'm coming.

                    MICAIAH
          So can I get your number so I can
          call you later

                       TONYA
          Sure.

                    TYRONE
          Alright, I'm sorry. Can we start
          over. Please. Hello, Ms Harmony my
          name is Tyrone.

She looks at him. Rolls her eyes, slams the locker shut and
walk away.

                    HARMONY
          Let's go Tonya

Tonya starts running to Harmony.

We hear a door open.

                    TEACHER (O.S.)
          You kids need to be in class.

As they are walking to the class Tonya turns around to look
at Micaiah again.
                                                            16.


                    TONYA
          Bye... (She smiles and giggles as
          they are walking away)

They all head off to class.

                      TONYA (CONT'D)
          Oh My God    They were totally hot.

                    HARMONY
          They were OK.

                    TONYA
          Girl you are crazy and his friend
          was surely checking you.

                    HARMONY
          Whatever, I don't have time for
          that. And you don't either. We
          need to be concentrating on getting
          through high school and heading to
          Juilliard like we always planned.

                    TONYA
          Together forever... I know.

                    HARMONY
          Yes, together forever

                    TONYA
            But still, a girl has to have a
          little fun.

Through out the weeks, months Micaiah and Tonya got real
close. They relationship was getting very serious.

By the time they were in the 10th grade Tonya and Micaiah
relationship was pushed into the point of no return.


INT. HARMONY HOUSE - DAY

HARMONY and TONYA enters into the house and HARMONY'S parents
are sitting on the sofa watching TV.

                    HARMONY
          Hi Mom and Dad. Tonya and I are
          going to do some homework.

The girls head upstairs. Once they are in Harmony room TONYA
feels this was the perfect time to tell her secret.
                                                            17.


                    TONYA
          Harmony, you are my best friend
          right?

                    HARMONY
          Girl, what kind of question is
          that. We have been best friends
          since 3rd grade. Your like a sister
          to me.

                    TONYA
          Well, (A beat) I need to tell you
          something and you can't tell
          anyone.

                    HARMONY
          OK. What's wrong.

                    TONYA
          I think....

She pauses because she is not sure she really wanna say it
out loud.

                    HARMONY
          What's wrong? You think what?

Tonya is having a hard time saying it out of her month so she
grabs her purse and pulls something out. She hands it to
Harmony

HARMONY looks at TONYA and see the fear on her face. She
looks down to see what is in her hand.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Girl is this what I think it is?

She looks at Tonya to see her response. Tonya plops on the
bed.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Girls stop playing this thing says
          that you are pregnant.

Tonya looks up at her and shakes her head.

She laughs because she know that there is no why TONYA would
do anything that foolish. She stops laughing because she
notice that Tonya is not laughing with her.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Your kidding right?

Tonya nods her hear.
                                                         18.


                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          So this is a real pregnancy test.

Tonya shake her head again.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Gross.. That mean you peeds on that
          things.

Harmony drops the test on the bed and the two girls laughed.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Now, I'm going go wash the pee off
          of my hands then you going to tell
          me how this happened.

Harmony goes out of the room. Tonya is sitting on the bed
trying to figure out how to explain this because she really
don't know how she got in this mess. Harmony walks back in
the room and see Tonya crying.

She puts her arm around her to console her.

                    TONYA
          Look before you lay into me
          remember I don't need a mother
          right now. I need a friend.

                    HARMONY
          Oh, honey I know. I wasn't going to
          yell at you. I just can't believe
          it.

She sits on the bed in have a look of disbelief on her face.

                    TONYA
          You got to promise that you will
          not tell anyone. Not even your
          parents

                    HARMONY
          You know I wont

                    TONYA
          Girl, you know you don't keep
          secret from your parents.

                    HARMONY
          What. Girl yes I... Ok maybe not.
          But I won't tell them this.

                    TONYA
          Please Harmony at least until I
          figure out what I'm going to do.
                                                         19.


The girls sit on the bed talking when the door flings open.
They immediately stop talking and jump as if they are guilty
of something.

Its Harmony little brother.

                    DONALD
          Whatcha doing?

                     HARMONY
          Get out.

She gets up and slam the door and lock it. She lays back down
on the bed. Tonya is laying on the bed with her head down in
her hand.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          What are you going to do?

                    TONYA
          I don't know. I really don't know.

                    HARMONY
          Oh my God... Have you told Cai?

                    TONYA
          I can't.... Cai is going to flip.
          You tell him

                    HARMONY
          Me (a beat) Why would I tell him
          that you are pregnant. Girl you are
          on your own with that.

                    TONYA
          I thought you said that you were my
          friend.

                    HARMONY
          Yeah, But this is between you and
          Cai. I wasn't there when you got
          pregnant and..

Tonya sits up in the bed. Because she knows that this is not
something that she can do alone. Harmony stops talking
because she see how upset and afraid Tonya is

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          OK. How bout this.... I'll go with
          you when you tell him. Ok.

                    TONYA
          Ok. Thanks Harmony.
                                                           20.


She feels a little relieved but still very much afraid.

                    TONYA (CONT'D)
          I can't believe I'm pregnant. I
          don't believe that I just said that
          out loud.

                    HARMONY
          What time are you meeting Cai.

                     TONYA
          Well I told him to meet me over
          here in a little bit. But now I
          rather not

                      HARMONY
          Let's go.

The 2 girls gather there things and left the room.


EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD PARK - JUST BEFORE SUNSET

The girls meet Cai and Ty on their walk down and decided to
go to the park for a while.

                    HARMONY
          Ty.. Let's walk to the store so
          that Tonya and Cai can talk.

                     TONYA
          (Mumbling under her voice and
          grabbing Harmony's arm) What are
          you doing?

                    HARMONY
          I just thought (She pulls away)
          this would be a good time for you
          to talk with Cai. You can do this.

She hugs Tonya and grab Tyrone and heads to the store.

                    MICAIAH
          Hey, baby come here. ( He pulls her
          to him) I haven't seen you all day.
          I miss you.

Tonya walks closer to him. But coldly hugs him. Micaiah
immediately notice that something is wrong.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          What's wrong?
                                                            21.


Tonya is standing there with her head hung down. Micaiah
lifts her head and notice that she is crying.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Tonya, (a beat) Tonya.. What's
          wrong? Talk to me

                    TONYA
          I'm .... I'm..... I'm

                    MICAIAH
          Your what? Girl what's wrong with
          you cat got your tongue.

Tonya turns away from him.   And mumble what she is trying to
tell him.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Tonya... Girl what's wrong with
          you.

                     TONYA
          Cai....   I'm Pregnant.

                    MICAIAH
          What... What did you just say.

                    TONYA
          I'm pregnant Cai, with your baby.

                    MICAIAH
          Are you serious.... Are you sure.

Tonya is very unsure of how he is going to take the news.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          I can't believe this... A shorty.
          My baby having my baby. Come here
          girl

He grabs her and a picks her up gently and turns around.

                     MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          A baby.

                    TONYA
          So you telling me that you are
          happy?

                     MICAIAH
          Happy.. Hell yeah. A little shorty
          to carry on my name. My legacy.
          Hell yeah.
                                                         22.


                    TONYA
          But CAI, I am only 16 years old and
          you are 17 and a high school drop
          out

MICAIAH is starting to get upset at the things that TONYA is
saying.

                    MICAIAH
          Man, cool that noise. I ain't
          trying to hear all that.

                    TONYA
          Seriously, What kind of life can we
          give a child.

Micaiah grabs Tonya and tries to ensure her that everything
would be OK.

                    MICAIAH
          What are saying? (a beat) Baby, I
          can take care of us.. You and our
          baby.

Tonya waits to believe him but knows that she don't want to
have a child right now.

                    TONYA
          I think we need to look at other
          options.

                       MICAIAH
          Like what?

At this point Micaiah is heated because he know where Tonya
mind is heading.

                    TONYA
          Well there is..

Before she could even finish her statement he cuts her off.
And he is so upset that he begin yelling.

                    MICAIAH
          I know you were not getting ready
          to suggest killing my baby. I Just
          know that you were not heading
          there.

He were yelling so loud that Harmony and Tyrone hears he from
across the street and started to run over.

                    HARMONY
          What is going on.
                                                         23.


She looks at Micaiah with an attitude

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          I know that you are not getting
          upset about what she just told you.
          You know she is not the only one in
          this

                    TONYA
          Harmony, let me handle this OK.

                    TYRONE
          Can somebody let me in on what's
          going on.

                    MICAIAH
          She wants to kill my baby

                       ALL TOGETHER
          What?

                       TYRONE
          What baby?

                    TONYA
          I never said that I wanted to kill
          our baby. I just said that there
          were other options.

                    MICAIAH
          There is no other options.

He grabs Tonya and pulls her close to him again

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Baby, trust me I will take care of
          us. It will be just you, me and our
          little baby.

Throughout the months Micaiah keep his word to Tonya he found
them a place to stay nice little 2 bedroom apartment. They
furnished the apartment and begin to get ready for their new
arrival.

Tonya tried to continue on in school but the morning sickness
begin to be a little too much and she was missing to many
days that she knew the only thing that she could do is drop
out.

Harmony spent her days in school and her afternoon with Tonya
helping her get prepared for the baby.
                                                         24.


                       HARMONY
             I think we should paint the room
             Purple

                       TONYA
             Purple.. I don't think so.

                       HARMONY
             Why.. It's my favorite color.

                        TONYA
             Harmony, Cai and I have been
             talking. We want you to be our baby
             God-mother

Harmony was so overwhelmed by what Tonya said that she just
bursted in tears

                       HARMONY
             Are you serious? I am so honored.

She walks over to Tonya and rub on her belly.

                       HARMONY (CONT'D)
             My god baby. I'm going to spoil you
             rotten. Oh you know what I just
             thought about.

                       TONYA
             What?

                       HARMONY
             You have 2 more months.   Baby
             shower time.

                       TONYA
             Oh girl you don't have too.

                       HARMONY
             What? I insist. This is your first
             child I am throwing you a baby
             shower.

                       TONYA
             Ok. First off you said this is my
             first child.. Correct this is my
             only child OK.

She laughs
                                                         25.


                    TONYA (CONT'D)
          I am not going through this again.
          Secondly I don't need any of those
          snobby girls from our school over
          here talking about their perfect
          body, and their perfect life when I
          am here feeling like a big fat cow.

                    HARMONY
          Girl, what are you talking about.
          Your friends from school miss you
          and they all keep asking me about
          your shower. Come on lets do it.

                    TONYA
          Ok. But the first time one of
          those chicks look at me funny
          Imma...

                    HARMONY
          Don't worry. I'll do it for you.

The both laugh.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Now. Lets go to the baby store and
          register for your stuff.

The two girls head out the door.


EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT

Micaiah and Tyrone spends most of the night working the
streets selling drugs to any and everyone that is will to
buy. They become well known in the neighborhood.

Although they are top sellers Micaiah realize with a baby on
the way he needed to make a little more then what he is
normally bring in.

He decides to go and talk with the big man in charge.


INT. HOUSE OF DRUG BOSS RAHJEAN

                    RAHJEAN
          (in a Jamaican accent)
          Cai, come in come in. Glad to see
          you. Man.

He looks to the other men in the room.
                                                        26.


                    RAHJEAN (CONT'D)
          You see this young man. How old are
          you now Cai

                      MICAIAH
          17 sir

                    RAHJEAN
          17, now see, some of you can take a
          lesson from this young man. He is
          one of my top seller.

                    MICAIAH
          Thank you sir. Actually that is
          what I came to talk to you about.

                      RAHJEAN
          Come now.    Sit down, talk to me.

Micaiah looks around the room and really don't feel
comfortable talking to him with everyone around him.

Rahjean notice that Micaiah feels uncomfortable.

                    RAHJEAN (CONT'D)
          Alright y'all clear the room. Let
          me talk to Cai for a minute

They wait until everyone is out of the room

                    RAHJEAN (CONT'D)
          So, What's going on Cai.

                    MICAIAH
          I need more action.

                    RAHJEAN
          Action... Don't you think you doing
          enough.

                    MICAIAH
          While, I have a baby on the way
          and I have to make sure my little
          man has everything that he needs

                    RAHJEAN
          Well, a baby. Congratulations. OK.
          I feel you. See that is why I like
          you. You have ambition.

                    MICAIAH
          So can you help me.
                                                          27.


                    RAHJEAN
          Actually you came to me at the
          perfect time. I do have a big job
          that I need someone that I can rely
          on to cover. I think you would be
          the perfect person.

                    MICAIAH
          Cool. What's the job?

                    RAHJEAN
          You just meet with Thomas on Friday
          and he will give you all of the
          details from there.

                    MICAIAH
          Thanks Rahjean.


INT. HOSIPTAL ROOM

Tonya just had a beautiful baby boy. Her room is filled with
flowers, balloons and teddy bears that Micaiah got for her
and the baby.

Micaiah walks in the room with more balloons, Tonya is
sitting on the bed feeding the baby.

                    MICAIAH
          There goes my baby and she holding
          my baby.

Tonya smiles because she is happy to see him.

                    TONYA
          Look who's here Jr. It's daddy with
          more balloons.

Micaiah puts all of the things in the corner of the room with
the rest. Walks over to the sink to wash his hands.

                    MICAIAH
          Here is daddy.

He grabs the baby and kiss Tonya

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Hello beautiful how are you today

                    TONYA
          Tired as hell. This room has been
          filled with people all day.
                                                           28.


                    MICAIAH
          Oh yeah who.

                    TONYA
          All of our friends from school.
          Skipping school today to come and
          see me. You know them anything to
          get out of school on a Friday.

Micaiah sit down in the recliner next to the bed holding the
baby.

                    MICAIAH
          So when will y'all be able to come
          home.

                    TONYA
          Tomorrow, morning. So ready to get
          out of here. Since you are here I
          guess I can get some rest.


INT. HOSIPTAL ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

The nurse came in to get baby Micaiah and Tonya is asleep
finally. Micaiah kisses her on the head and leaves for the
night.

                     NURSE
          I'm going to take the baby in for
          the night.

                    MICAIAH
          Yes, Ma'am.


EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

Micaiah meets up with another man to go on the run that
Rahjean setup for them

                    THOMAS
          Ok Micaiah, Rahjean told me that
          you wanted a little more action
          well now you got it. Grab that bag
          right there.

                    MICAIAH
          This is heavy. What's in here

                    THOMAS
          Your ticket out of poverty.
                                                         29.


                    MICAIAH
          Word?

                    THOMAS
          Just get the bag and don't worry
          about what's in it.

We see THOMAS and MICAIAH meet up with some other gentlemen
in a black Lexis SUV. The men get out of the car and the bags
were exchanged. They get in there car and drive off.

As they were driving off we see blue light flashing 4 cop
cars pulled up and blocked them off. There was no way out for
them.

                    POLICEMAN
          Get out of your vehicles slowly
          with your hands in the air.

The two do as they were ask. The policeman walk over slowly
and push them to the ground and put handcuffs on them.
Micaiah getting arrested. We see the jail cell close behind
him.


INT. HOSIPTAL ROOM - DAY

Tonya is preparing for Micaiah to come pick her up. She get
the baby dressed and put on her new outfit that she brought
for herself to go home in. She gather all of her flowers,
balloons, teddy bears and gifts together. She tries calling
Micaiah. But all she is getting is his voicemail.

                    TONYA
          Cai, we are ready. The doctor is on
          his way in to discharge me. I hope
          you are on your way.

She hangs up the phone. And started back getting all of her
things together. The nurse comes in and bring all of the
discharge papers in.

                    NURSE
          Here are your discharge papers. Is
          your ride on the way?

                    TONYA
          Hmm. Yeah. Well I called he didn't
          answer. He should be here any
          minute now.

                    NURSE
          OK.
                                                        30.


Tonya tries calling again. She get no answer. An hour goes
by still no Micaiah. Tonya decides to call Harmony.

                    TONYA
          Harmony, Have you heard from
          Micaiah?


INT. HARMONY HOUSE

                    HARMONY
          What? He's not there yet?


INT. HOSIPTAL ROOM

                    TONYA
          No, I've been calling him all
          morning. He's not answering.


INT. HARMONY HOUSE

                    HARMONY
          I'll call Tyrone to see if he heard
          from him. And I am on my way to
          get you.


INT. HOSIPTAL ROOM

                    TONYA
          No, you don't have to do that.


INT. HARMONY HOUSE

                    HARMONY
          Yes I do, I'm on my way. Bye.

As soon as she hangs up the phone she calls Tyrone.


EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY

                     TYRONE
          This Ty.


INT. HARMONY HOUSE

                    HARMONY
          Ty, have you heard from Cai.
                                                         31.


EXT. STREET CORNER

                    TYRONE
          Nah, what's up?


INT. HARMONY HOUSE

                    HARMONY
          He was suppose to pick up Tonya
          from the hosiptal 2 hours ago and
          she can't reach him


EXT. STREET CORNER

                    TYRONE
          Awe Man that's messed up. Well what
          you need me to do.


INT. HARMONY HOUSE

                    HARMONY
          Come get me and we'll go get her.
          You know your boy is foul for this
          one.

Tyrone picks up Harmony and they head to the hospital. When
they get there Tonya and the baby are sitting in the lobby.
Tonya crying and upset.


INT. HOSIPTAL LOBBY -DAY

                    HARMONY
          Oh Tonya, come on let's get you
          home.

                    TONYA
          Something's got to be wrong. He's
          not answering his phone, I called
          his Mom and she said that she
          haven't heard from him or seen him.
          Something is definitely wrong. He
          wouldn't do this. I Know CAI.

                    TYRONE
          Let's just get you home and I will
          go look for him OK.

As Harmony is helping Tonya and the baby in the car Tyrone is
putting all of the things in the back of his SUV.
                                                         32.


                    HARMONY
          Yeah honey, you don't need to be
          worry about this right now. I will
          stay with you.

While they were driving to the house Tonya continues to try
calling CAI phone. Still no answer.

When they pull up to the apartment they notice that his car
is parked in front of the apartment.

                    TONYA
          His cars is here..

Harmony looks at Tyrone because she just feel it's not good
for Tonya to go in first

                    HARMONY
          Where are your keys. Let Ty open
          the door and make sure everything
          is OK.

Tonya hands him the keys. Tyrone go to the apartment, he goes
in. About a couple minutes later he comes out.

                    TYRONE
          He not here.

They get all of the stuff out of the car and Tonya and the
baby go in the house.

                    TYRONE (CONT'D)
          You want me to take you back home
          Harmony.

                    HARMONY
          No, I'm going to stay here with
          her. Your try to find him. Please.

                    TYRONE
          Alright. I will let you know as
          soon as I find something out.

Hours go by and still no word from Micaiah or Tyrone. Harmony
stays to try to help her until Micaiah gets home. There is a
knock at the door. Harmony answers it.

                       HARMONY
          Who is it?

                       TYRONE
          Ty.

She quickly opens the door.
                                                         33.


                    HARMONY
          Did you find him.

                      TYRONE
          Yeah.

                    HARMONY
          Well where is he. When I get my
          hands on his Imma...

                    TYRONE
          Harmony, He's in jail

                    HARMONY
          Jail. What?

                    TYRONE
          Girl, I swear you haven't changed
          at all.

                      HARMONY
          Whatever.

She looks back because she don't want to wake Tonya or the
baby. She goes to the back of the apartment and closes the
door.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          What do you mean jail.

                    TYRONE
          He was busted last night for
          possession. Harmony its not looking
          good. I tried to bond him out and
          they said that he is being held
          without bond.

                    HARMONY
          Oh My goodness. How am I going to
          tell Tonya this.

Harmony sits down because the news is hard to take. Tonya
comes out of the room

                    TONYA
          Tell me what. What's wrong? Where
          is Micaiah.

                    TYRONE
          He's been arrested. He's in jail.

                      TONYA
          What?
                                                         34.


She sits on the sofa and started crying. Harmony walks over
to try to calm her.


SUPER: 2 YEARS LATER


INT. MALL BRIDAL SHOP - DAY

Harmony is preparing for her graduating year. She and Tonya
shopping around for her a prom dress. Tonya pushing Baby
Micaiah in a stroller and is pregnant again with her second
child.

                    TONYA
          Girl, I tell you. I am getting my
          tubes tied after this one. I'm not
          having any more children.

                    HARMONY
          Well you always said you want a boy
          and a girl.

                    TONYA
          Whatever, Cai only been out of Jail
          for a few months and here I am
          pregnant again. I can't depend on
          him.

                    HARMONY
          It's going to be different this
          time you'll see.

                    TONYA
          If you say so, Oh I like that one.
          Try this on.

She notices that Harmony is not really excited about any of
the dresses.

                    TONYA (CONT'D)
          What's wrong girl?

                    HARMONY
          Nothing, its just... This is
          suppose to be me and you looking
          for our dresses together to go to
          the prom. I really don't wanna go
          without you all.
                                                         35.


                    TONYA
          Girl don't start that. Don't allow
          me and my issue keep you from
          enjoying your last 2 months as a
          high school student.

Harmony goes in the room to try the dress on and she comes
out

                    HARMONY
          How does it look.

                    TONYA
          Fabulous. Girl you gone knock them
          boys off their socks.

                    HARMONY
          I guess

                     TONYA
          Yes, and you are going to have a
          good time and then it is off to
          Juilliard.

Tonya whole demeanor changes.

                    TONYA (CONT'D)
          You are right this is suppose to be
          us. We are suppose to be getting
          ready for the prom we were suppose
          to be head to Juilliard I guess I
          really messed things up huh.

                    HARMONY
          Well maybe after you have this baby
          you can go back so that you can get
          your diploma and I'll see you in a
          couple of years.

                    TONYA
          You know that's not possible.

Harmony knows that what Tonya is saying is true. Over the
next couple of months Harmony is finishing her last few
months of school. She start to prepare to go off to college
in New York City. Her parents decides to throw her a party so
that all of their family and friends could wish her well.

We see Harmony sitting at her keyboard working on a song when
she gets a phone call.
                                                         36.


                    HARMONY
          Hello, Oh yes the party is this
          weekend at 6:30. Ok. See you
          there.


INT. HARMONY HOUSE

We see a sign draped across the room

CONGRATULATION HARMONY TO JUILLIARD AND BEYOND

All of her family and friend were there. Everyone brought
gifts and cards. Her brother and sister are standing at the
door directing people where to put the gift.

                    DONALD
          Put your gifts over there on the
          table.

                    MONA
          There is a camera so that you can
          leave a message to Harmony. Don't
          forget to do that before you leave.

                    TOGETHER
          Enjoy the party.

They spent most of the night meeting and greet the guess til
they didn't realize that they were doing work. Harmony see
them working so hard she just knew she had to do something
for them before she leaves.

The party was a huge success everybody was there but Harmony
notice that her very closes friends was not there yet. She
sees Tyrone walk in the door.

                    TYRONE
          Look at you. Hello beautiful.

                    HARMONY
          Hello Ty, thanks for coming.

                    TYRONE
          What's wrong. This is suppose to be
          one of the happiest day of your
          life.

                    HARMONY
          It is, I just expected Tonya and
          Cai.
                                                            37.


                    TYRONE
          Oh they'll be here. As a matter of
          fact there they are

We see Tonya and Cai making their way threw the crowd. Tonya
looking like sure it ready to drop the baby in minute now.
Cai walking in holding micaiah jr.

Harmony walks over and meet them in the middle.

                    HARMONY
          Oh, I'm so glad you made it.

                    TONYA
          Girl you know we wouldn't have
          missed this for the world. I'm
          sorry I had to bring Jr. I couldn't
          get anyone to keep him.

She looks around the room.

                    TONYA (CONT'D)
          Everybody we know is here. He
          finally went to sleep on the way
          here.

                    HARMONY
          You know I don't mind you bring my
          god-son. Give him to me. I'll lay
          him down in my sister's room. How
          you doing Cai.

                    MICAIAH
          Wassup. Congratulation Baby girl.

Harmony put the baby in the room and then return to the
party.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Here this is from me and Tonya.

She opens the envelope and notice that there is a lot of
money in there.

                    HARMONY
          Cai I see you back to your old self
          again. I can't take this

She tries to hand then envelope back to him.
                                                         38.


                    MICAIAH
          Yes you can and you will. This is
          to get you started in the big
          apple. Just look at it as in
          investment.

                    HARMONY
          An Investment on what. I know you
          Cai, you always have something up
          your sleeve.

                    MICAIAH
          We'll get into that later. You
          going to be my New York connection.
          If you know what I mean.

                    HARMONY
          Whatever... Now that you all are
          here let do some real celebrating.

They all go outside and get in micaiah's car and drive off.


INT. HARMONY HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

The following morning Harmony is still in bed because she is
hung over from the night before.

                    DEBRA
          Harmony its time to get up we have
          a lot of things to do today before
          you leave on Sunday.

                    HARMONY
          Ok mom. I'm getting up.

Harmony get up and head down stairs.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Oh my head is hurting so bad do you
          have any thing that I can take

                    DEBRA
          In the cabinet

                    DONALD SR.
          You know the rest of your guest did
          not appreciate you just leaving
          them the way you did last night.

                    HARMONY
          Oh I'm sorry dad I just wanted to
          hand out with my friends for my
          last night here in Jacksonville.
                                                         39.


                    DONALD SR.
          You could have told us something.

Trying to keep the Piece Debra interrupts the conversation

                    DEBRA
          Are you hungry?

                    HARMONY
          Huh! No ma'am

She gets up from the table.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          I'm going to open up my gifts and
          then finish packing.

                    DEBRA
          Ok. but you still need to eat
          something. It will help with that
          headache.

She grabs a piece of toast and bacon and heads to her room.

                    DONALD SR.
          After you are done come outside We
          have something to show you.

Harmony goes to her room and open all of the gifts and cards
that she received


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S HOUSE

Micaiah looking around the house for something and Tonya is
somewhat curious as to what he is looking for.

                    TONYA
          What are you looking for Cai.

                     MICAIAH
          Nothing.

Micaiah is franticly looking in all of his pockets. In the
dresser, and on the floor.

                    TONYA
          That was a nice party they had for
          Harmony wasn't it.

He steady roaming through the house looking for something
what wont say what he is looking for.
                                                         40.


                    MICAIAH
          Yeah, yeah real nice.

                    TONYA
          What are you looking for maybe I
          can..

He cuts her off before she can finish what she was saying.

                    MICAIAH
          Huh... Found it.

He gets up from the floor.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Thanks baby.

He kisses her on the cheek.

                    TONYA
          But you said that you were looking
          for anything. So silly.

Micaiah doesn't here anything that she said she just walks in
the bathroom and closes the door.

We see him clear the counter and pull something from under
the sink counter.

Pull the something out of his pocket and spread it on the
counter. It is unsure of what he is doing until the camera
gets closer to him.

Micaiah lifts his head and takes a deep breathe in. He leans
his head back and you can see the powder on his noise.


EXT. HARMONY HOUSE

Harmony walks out the house carrying some of her bags. She
Struggling and trying not to drop them and didn't even notice
her parents standing outside.

She drops a suitcase and looks up because she is upset at
what just happened. That's when she notice her parents.

She Dropped all of the bags and scream...

                    HARMONY
          OH MY GOD......OH MY GOD   MOM ....
          DAD.

She was so excited til she screaming to the top of her lungs.
                                                           41.


We see her parents standing next to car with a ribbon on it.

Harmony runs to the car more excited then she has every been.

                       HARMONY (CONT'D)
          I love it.     I absolutely love it.

                    DONALD SR.
          This is what we wanted to give last
          night before you had your little
          disappearing act.

                       DEBRA
          Donald..

                    DONALD SR.
          I know, I Know. Just saying.

                    HARMONY
          I know dad. I'm sorry. I will do
          better. Thanks so much. Oh, I
          gotta call Tonya.

She runs in the house dialing Tonya number while she is
headed inside

Her parents look at each other and smile. They start to pick
her bags up and put them in the car.


INT. HARMONY'S ROOM - DAY

We she harmony sitting on the bed talk with Tonya very
excited about the car.

                    HARMONY
          I just can't believe that got me a
          red Mustang. That is my absolute
          favorite car. I am so excited. (A
          Beat) Hello, Tonya

Harmony tries to get her attention on the phone and she
notices that Tonya is distance

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          What's wrong with you girl.

                    TONYA
          I'm just tried girl. Why don't you
          come by before you leave for the
          airport tomorrow.

                    HARMONY
          Ok. See you later.
                                                            42.


INT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE - KITCHEN TABLE - DAY

We see Donald Jr and Mona sitting at the table still eating
there breakfast.

                    HARMONY
          He guys when you are done go get
          dressed and I am going to take you
          all out to where every you wanna
          go.

                    MONA
          To the mall.

                    DONALD
          I wanna go bowling.

                    HARMONY
          Well we have all day you all can do
          what ever you want.

                       BOTH
          Done.

The grab their plates dump what's left and runs in there
rooms to change.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S HOUSE - DAY

We see Tonya sitting on the couch. She looks as if she was
crying. We here a knock at the door.

                       TONYA
          Who is it.

                       HARMONY
          It's me.

Tonya goes and open the door she looks very sad and
depressed.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Did you forget that I was coming.

                    TONYA
          No, just not really up for any
          company.

                    HARMONY
          What's wrong. You look Terrible.
                                                         43.


                    TONYA
          Thanks. Maybe that's why my husband
          didn't come home last night.

                    HARMONY
          What? Oh honey, I'm sorry.   You
          need me to call Tyrone.

                    TONYA
          Huh Huh very funny.

                    HARMONY
          Huh. No girl you so silly. I mean
          ty. So he can go look for him.

                    TONYA
          No, I'll be OK. So let's see that
          car you been bragging about. I
          wanna go for a spin in this car of
          your.

                    HARMONY
          Ok let's room.

Tonya grab Micaiah Jr and Harmony grab the can seat and they
head out the door.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

                    TONYA
          This is nice. You taking it to New
          York with you.

                    HARMONY
          No, they don't allow freshmen with
          cars but next year its going to be
          me and my car in the big apple.

                    TONYA
          That's what's up. So you need
          somebody to watch this for you
          while you gone.

They both laugh and drive off.


EXT. JACKSONVILLE INTERNATAION AIRPORT - DAY

Harmony parents follow her to the airport because she wanted
to drive her car one last time before she left. When they
pull up in the airport garage she gets out the car and grab
her things. Her Brother and sister gets out their parents car
to help her bring her things in.
                                                          44.


                    DONALD SR.
          Alright baby girl, you be careful
          in New York.

                    HARMONY
          Take care of my car.

She wraps her hands around the car.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          I'm going to miss you.

She turns around and looks at her family.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          I'm going to miss you all too.

She gives them all a big hug and kiss.   Then head inside the
airport.

                    DEBRA
          OK Baby, you be good, be safe and
          call me everyday.

                    HARMONY
          Mom

                    DEBRA
          Ok at least twice a week OK.

                    HARMONY
          Ok mom.


INT. HARMONY'S DORM ROOM

Harmony's sitting at the keyboard playing and sing her
favorite song.

$$ MUSIC $$


EXT. BACK ALLEY - NIGHT

We see a man sitting in an alley with his head hanging down.
He drop his leg down and lifts his head. The camera moves in
closer and closer. The face of the man is familiar.

                    MICAIAH (V.O.)
          Here I am doing the same thing that
          I said that I wouldn't do. I
          started out with marijuana, then it
          was cocaine and now. (hmm)
                                                         45.


He drops a needle on the ground and passes out. We hear a car
pull up and the doors open. Footsteps of a man getting out of
the car. The men walk over to were Micaiah is sitting and
pulls him up to his feet.

                    MICAIAH
          What's going on. Let me go.

                    DANIEL
          Cai, Tonya sent us out here to look
          for you. You need to come with us
          now or you will lose everything
          that you have work so hard for.

                    MICAIAH
          Just leave me here to die. She
          going to leave me anyway. I have
          nothing to live for so just leave
          me here.

                    DANIEL
          We are not leaving you here. Tonya
          asked us to come and that is what
          we are doing. We can do this the
          easy way or the hard way. But
          either way you are coming with us.

Daniel and his friend Charlie help Micaiah up and into the
car.

The men get into the car and began to drive.

                    DANIEL (CONT'D)
          Tonya told us that you would be
          here. Cai you really need to clean
          up your act bruh or that girl is
          going to leave you. That why we are
          taking you to the rehab center

                    MICAIAH
          Oh Hell no.

He grabs the door handle and tries to open the door but it is
locked and he can't get out.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
            I'm not going to a rehab center.
          Let me out of this car.

                    DANIEL
          You have no other choice. She is
          not allowing you to come back home.
          This is your only solution
                                                          46.


                    MICAIAH
          Just let me out of the car

He tries to fight his way out of the car but Charlie takes
control of him.

Charlie is no where as big as micaiah but the drugs that he
is doing makes him very week. So it was easy for Charlie to
take control of him.

                    DANIEL
          Cai, Just sit back and enjoy the
          ride. This is for your own good.

The men fussed all of the way to the rehab center. When They
pulled up there were orderlies waiting outside to bring him
in.

                     MICAIAH
          Look Daniel I don't need a place
          like this. You know me. I am not
          an addict.

                    DANIEL
          Yeah, that's what all addicts say.
          Look bruh,Just do this. And in
          before you know it you will be out
          and with your family again. You
          know Tonya needs you there for them
          children.

They open the door and get out of the car.   Daniel pumps the
trunk and grab a suitcase out.

                    MICAIAH
          Here let me. I need to do this on
          my own.

He grabs his suitcase and walk towards the building.

We see the orderlies walking him in. The doors close.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE REHAB CENTER

We see Micaiah walking out of the Rehab center. His brother
& his Wife, standing there about 7 months pregnant with there
6th child.

                    DANIEL
          Here he comes.
                                                         47.


His wife standing there with a big smile on her face because
he looks so health now. When he gets to the car she grabs him
and give him a big hug.

                    TONYA
          I miss you so much and your
          children misses you too.

                    MICAIAH
          Where are the kids?

                    TONYA
          They are home waiting for you.
          They are so excited that you are
          coming home today.

                    MICAIAH
          I can't wait to see them I miss
          them so much. And who is this?

He ask her as he rubs on her stomach

                    TONYA
          This is your daughter. We still
          have to find a name for her.

                    MICAIAH
          Hey baby girl this is your daddy.

He bends down and give her a kiss on her stomach.

Daniel puts the suitcase in the trunk and they all get in the
car and drive off.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Baby I am sorry that I put you
          through this. But I am clean now
          and I am going to get myself
          together.

Through the next couple of weeks Micaiah was so determined to
find a job that he got up bright and early every morning and
went from place to place looking for places that were hiring.


EXT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S HOUSE

Three weeks go by and still no job. We see Micaiah standing
no the porch to ashamed to go in the house for another night
and tell his wife that he didn't get a job again. He takes a
deep breathe and grab the handle to the door.
                                                           48.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S HOUSE

When he walks in the house the children are excited to see
him. They all run to too him.

                    ALL TOGETHER
          Daddy.

                    MICAIAH
          Oh there are all my babies.   Give
          me a hug.

Micaiah hugs and kissed all of his children. While Micaiah
was talking with the children the phone rings and Tonya go in
to answer the phone.

                    TONYA
          Hello, yes this is she. Yes I know
          ma'am I know that we are behind on
          the car payment. If you can please
          give us another week I promise we
          will have that payment to you.

She sits and listen to what the lady is saying on the phone.

                    TONYA (CONT'D)
          Yes, ma'am, I understand.   Ok
          thanks.

She hangs up the phone and notice the Micaiah is standing in
the door.

                    MICAIAH
          Who was that?

She knows that telling him that it was a bill collector would
only frustrate him even more.

                    TONYA
          Oh know one. I took care of it.

She walks past him and give him a kiss on the cheek and
leaves the room.

                    TONYA (CONT'D)
          How was your day?

After a couple of weeks of job hunting he began to give up
hope.

                    MICAIAH
          Well, I didn't find a job if that's
          what you mean.
                                                         49.


Trying hard to keep him encouraged she massages his shoulders
and kisses him on the cheek

                    TONYA
          Don't worry baby, you will. You are
          a good man and a hard worker.

                    MICAIAH
          Its my record that is holding me
          back. Nobody is going to hire an ex-
          con.

                    TONYA
          You have to stay positive baby.
          The Lord will make a way.

                    MICAIAH
          Here you go with that church stuff
          again. I tell you since you been
          going to that church that's I all I
          hear about. I just know that you
          have changed. The old Tonya would
          have been OK with me getting what I
          needed any way I could.

                    TONYA
          Well I am glad that you see it. It
          maybe something that you will need
          to do. Why don't you come it might
          help

                    MICAIAH
          I will think about it. But for now
          I need to go out for a little.

Seeing the frustration on his face she begins to get concern.
She know that when he gets that way he is willing to do
whatever it takes.

                    TONYA
          Where are you going?

                    MICAIAH
          Just to get some air.   I will be
          right back.


EXT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S HOUSE

Micaiah stands on the porch and take a deep breathe. He zips
up his jacket and walk down the stairs to the car. Driving is
normally his way to get things off of his mind. He looks up
and find that he is near one of his old friends house. He
decides to stop by.
                                                         50.


EXT. HOME OF LOCAL DRUG DEALER - NIGHT

Tyrone shock to see his ex running partner stands up with
excitement.

                    TYRONE
          Well, well you out of the house
          this time of night. You must be
          ready for some action. You here to
          buy?

                    MICAIAH
          Naw man, I don't do that crap any
          more.

                    TYRONE
          So you looking for a job. That
          what's up. I can always use
          another leg runner. Tommy.

                       TOMMY
          Yes, boss.

                    TYRONE
          Take Cai with you on this next run.

                    TOMMY
          What? So you back in the game now.
          That's what's up. Welcome back to
          the family brah.

                    MICAIAH
          Well, its just temporary until I
          get a job. You know I have to get
          some bills paid.

                       TOMMY
          I feel ya.

                    TYRONE
          You do this run for me and I will
          make sure you and your family are
          taken care of.

He hands him some money.

                    TYRONE (CONT'D)
          This will get you started and now
          your pretty little wife don't have
          to worry any more.

He knew that there was no way he could tell his wife that he
was working for Tyrone again.
                                                         51.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S HOUSE - DAY

The following day Micaiah got up and began to get ready for
work.

                    TONYA
          Where are you going this early?

                    MICAIAH
          To work. (A Beat) Man it feels good
          to say that.

                    TONYA
          Oh so you found something.

                    MICAIAH
          Yes, I would have told you last
          night but you were sleep when I got
          in.

                    TONYA
          So what are you doing?

                    MICAIAH
          Selling Used cars.    As a matter of
          fact.

He reaches in his pocket and pull out some money. He takes a
$20 bill out and hand his wife the rest.

                       MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Take this.     Pay off some bills OK.

                    TONYA
          Where did you get that money?

                    MICAIAH
          I sold a car yesterday. This was
          the commission from it. My boss
          says that I am a natural.

                    TONYA
          Oh baby I'm so proud of you. I
          thank God for opening that door for
          you.

                    MICAIAH
          Yeah, well I got to go.    Don't
          wanna be late.

Although Micaiah planned on this being a temporary thing
weeks went by and this was something that he was familiar
with.
                                                            52.


Super: 6 months later


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Things were looking good for Micaiah and his family. They
purchased a new house. Own 2 new cars.

We see Kitchen table with place setting for 7 people. Tonya
at the Stove getting dinner ready.

                    TONYA
          Children, Dinner is ready.

                    ALL TOGETHER (O.S.)
          Ok. Mom we're coming.

Micaiah enters the kitchen putting on his jacket.

                    TONYA
          Where are you going? It's dinner
          time.

                    MICAIAH
          I know Baby.

He gives her a kiss on the forehead and grabs a piece of
chicken off of the plate.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          I really have an important run.    I
          will only be gone a couple of
          hours.

                    TONYA
          But Cai, You know we always..

                    MICAIAH
          I know I know... I promise I will
          make it up to you.

                      TONYA
          Cai.

                      MICAIAH
          Yes baby.

                    TONYA
          You not doing something that you
          not suppose to be doing are you.
                                                         53.


                    MICAIAH
          Baby, I told you I am done with
          that lifestyle. Don't worry OK. I
          see you when I get home OK.


EXT. HOME OF LOCAL DRUG DEALER

                    TYRONE
          I'm glad everyone could make it.
          The Westside got hit yesterday and
          a few of those boys were killed.
          Right now things are kind of hot
          because no ones knows who hit them.
          Keep your eyes open and watch your
          back.

The guys start walk away.

                    TYRONE (CONT'D)
          And by the way if I find out that
          it was any of you, You will have
          me to deal with. Got it?

                    ALL TOGETHER
          Yeah boss. We hear ya.


EXT. IN FRONT ON MICAIAH HOUSE - NIGHT

Just hearing the news about their rivals but Micaiah on the
edge.

                    MICAIAH
          I can't believe this is going on
          now. Do either of you know anything
          about that.

                     TOMMY
          Nah man. I aint got nothing to do
          with that.

                    DEREK
          OK. I'm not trying to get that kind
          of heat my way. You heard.

The men stop talking because they notice a black van passing
by. They didn't wanna react to fast but they also knew that
they had to be very cautious.
                                                         54.


                    MICAIAH
          Well, I hear ya. Look let me get in
          the house I know my baby got
          something on the stove and I don't
          wanna miss out.

                    TOMMY
          Iight man, piece.

Tommy and Derek headed out in opposite directions.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

Micaiah walked in the house where he sees his family sitting
down watching TV. They all jump up to greet him.

                    ALL TOGETHER
          Daddy.

                    MICAIAH
          Hello my precious babies where is
          your mom.

                    TONYA (O.S.)
          I'm in the Kitchen


EXT. IN FRONT ON MICAIAH HOUSE - NIGHT

We see the Black van drive by the house again very slowly
this time the side door is open and there two guys hanging
out of the door with guns in their hands.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

                    MICAIAH
          Hello baby, I'm sorry about missing
          dinner

                    TONYA
          It's OK. Your food in the oven.


EXT. IN FRONT ON MICAIAH HOUSE

When the van was directly in front of the house the men open
fire.
                                                         55.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

The children all began to scream. We see Micaiah and Tonya
run from the kitchen as low as they could to get to their
children. They were all piled on the floor as the bullets
filled their house.


EXT. IN FRONT ON MICAIAH HOUSE

Tommy hears the gun shot and immediately turns around. He run
back towards the house because he remembers the van that they
saw a few minutes earlier. When he get close enough to the
van he pulls out his gun and begin shooting.

The Van starts to drive off but Tommy shoots the driver in
the side of his head as he is driving off and the van hits
another car and stops.

The other 2 shooters get out of the van but before they could
start running Derek walks up beside them and shoots one of
them in the head. The other shooter runs and he is shot in
the back. Tommy runs to the house to make sure Micaiah and
his family were OK.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

Micaiah notices that the shooting has stopped and he gets up
off the floor. His wife and children are screaming and
crying because of what just happened.

                    TOMMY (O.S.)
          Is everyone OK in there. (A Beat)
          Micaiah, Is everyone OK in there?

                    MICAIAH
          Yeah, What was that all about.

He looks around checks all of his children and his wife. He
so concern about his family that he didn't notice that he got
hit.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          It's all over. Stay here

                     TONYA
          No, Cai.   Don't go out there.

She grabs him and notice that he is bleeding.

                    MICAIAH
          Tonya, its OK. Let me
                                                           56.


                    TONYA
          Baby, (she looks him over) your
          bleeding.

                       MICAIAH
          What?

He notice the blood.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Oh it's OK. I'll be OK. Baby
          everything is OK.

                    TONYA
          It's not OK. It's no way near OK.
          There are people shooting at our
          house Cai, why is that? Huh. You
          got shot. They could have killed
          one or all of our children and you
          say that everything is OK. I don't
          believe this.

                    MICAIAH
          Baby, please. Let me handle this.

                    TONYA
          Do what you got to do OK. I know
          that I have to do what I have to
          do.

She walks up the stairs and Micaiah heads out the door.

                    TONYA (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Children go to your rooms and pack
          a bag. We are not staying here.


EXT. IN FRONT ON MICAIAH HOUSE

He walk out the house and sees the van down the street. He
starts to head in that direction when Tommy and Derek walk up
towards him. He starts to reach for his gun.

                    TOMMY
          Cai its us.

                    MICAIAH
          What the hell is going on Tommy.

                     TOMMY
          You know who it is. Just like
          Tyrone said they were going to try
          to strike.
                                                         57.


                    DEREK
          They think Tyrone had something to
          do with the hit last night.

                    MICAIAH
          Well did he?

Tommy and Derek looks at each other but neither are willing
to omit what they know.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Did he?

                    TOMMY
          Look we don't know for sure but
          with all of this I really do think
          he had something to do with it.

                    MICAIAH
          But why my house? My family is in
          there my children were sitting
          there when those idiots started
          shooting in my house.

                    TOMMY
          I know man calm down, we got them.
          You don't have to worry about
          anything. Just go with your family
          we will clean this up.

                    MICAIAH
          No, this is what I'm going to do.
          You let Tyrone know that I am out.
          I don't wanna have anything else to
          do with this crap.

                    TOMMY
          What? Come on man think about what
          you are doing what you are saying.

                    MICAIAH
          I know what I'm doing. How am I
          going to explain this to my family
          my wife don't even know that I am
          out here doing this.

As they were trying to figure what to they hear the police
sirens near by.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          The cops what am I suppose to tell
          them. I cant go back to jail. I am
          on my third strike.
                    (MORE)
                                                           58.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          If I go back I'm in for good and I
          can't do that to my family.

                    DEREK
          Just tell them that you heard some
          guys outside your door fusing and
          then you heard the gun shots.

                     TOMMY
          Just go in the house man. It will
          all be OK.

Micaiah heads back in the house. Tommy and Derek ran from the
house. The police cars pull up.


INT. HOTEL ROOM   - NIGHT

                    YOUNGEST DAUGTHER
          Mommy, are we staying here.

                    TONYA
          Yes baby. Just for tonight

                    YOUNGEST DAUGTHER
          Is daddy coming.

                    TONYA
          I don't know baby. You get some
          rest and we will talk about this
          later OK.

                      YOUNGEST DAUGTHER
          Ok mommy.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE - DAY

Micaiah laying on the sofa passed out. The light from the sun
blazes in the room. He awakes to an empty house. No children
no wife. He knows that he has to make a change or he will
lose his family forever.

He jumps up and begin to search for his phone. He dials
Tonya's number.

                    MICAIAH
          Answer the phone baby.

He paste back and forth. Hangs up the phone and call again.
                                                         59.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Tonya's piling the children in the car. Her phone rings
constantly. Tonya refuses to answer because she knows it just
Micaiah with another story of why he is not doing is part in
this relationship.


INT. TONYA'S SUV - DAY

Ring....Ring

                    TONYA
          Everybody have their seat beats on.

                      ALL TOGETHER
          Yes ma'am

                    MICAIAH JR.
          Ma' your phone ringing.

                    TONYA
          I know baby.. But who ever it is
          can wait. I don't wanna be late
          this morning.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

Micaiah is getting very frustrated because he is not able to
reach his wife. He runs up the stairs to the bedroom pull out
a suit that his wife has been wanting him to where for
months.

He goes in the bathroom and turns on the shower. Picks up his
phone and tries to call Tonya again. Still no answer.


EXT. TONYA'S SUV - DAY

Tonya pulls up to the church and she and the children gets
out of the car. We see people walking in the door of the
church. As they are entering in there are ushers standing by
the door passing out fans and programs.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

Micaiah running down the stairs in his suit he knows that the
only way to get through to his wife is to give her what she
had been asking for since she joined that church.
                                                         60.


INT. CHURCH SANTUARY

The spirit is high. Everyone is rejoicing and praising God.
Tonya and the children enters the santuary and sit down next
to Micaiah's mom.


EXT. IN FRONT ON MICAIAH HOUSE

As Micaiah was leaving the house a car pulls up in front of
his house. Derek gets out the car and walks up to Micaiah.

                    DEREK
          Well look at you.    You clean up
          well and fast.

                    MICAIAH
          What are you doing here Derek?

                    DEREK
          I told Tyrone what happen last
          night and he wanted me to come by
          to check on you. Make sure
          everything was OK with you and your
          family.

                    MICAIAH
          You know we are going to be fine.
          You tell Tyrone I am out. I don't
          need this crap any more.

                    DEREK
          Better yet.

He walks over to the car and open the door.

                    DEREK (CONT'D)
          You tell him.

Tyrone peaks his head around the corner.

                       DEREK (CONT'D)
          Get in.

Micaiah gets in the car. Not knowing what to expect.

                    MICAIAH
          Look Tyrone, I got to get out of
          this. My family is in danger. I
          mean can you explain why my house
          got shot up last night.
                                                            61.


                    TYRONE
          Calm down, I am just here to see if
          I can change your mind. You are one
          of my best guys.

                    MICAIAH
          Nah man. I'm out.

Tyrone began to have a whole new attitude about this.

                    TYRONE
          Ok. No more Mr nice guy So,(a beat)
          you really think it's that easy to
          just walk away.

He pulls out a gun and point it at Micaiah.

                    TYRONE (CONT'D)
          You owe me nigga.

                    MICAIAH
          I don't owe you nothing. You need
          to put that gun away before there
          be some problem ya heard.

Micaiah opens the car door and walks out the car. One side of
him knows that Tyrone may take this opportunity and shoot him
in the back. But he didn't allow that from keep him getting
out of that car.

Derek and Tyrone drives off and Micaiah gets in his car.


INT. CHURCH SANTUARY

The minister is up ministering the word. Micaiah opens the
door to the Church. The Ushers hands him a program and direct
him to a sit. He looks around to see if he could find his
family.

Tonya and the children sitting next to Micaiah's mom. Micaiah
walks over to his family and touches his wife of the arm. She
looks up and heart eyes lights up. She tells the children to
move down.

Micaiah sits next to his wife and gives her a kiss on the
cheek and grab the baby out of her arms. All through service
you can see how excited she was to see him there.

After the sermon was over the pastor made in alter call. We
see people getting up from their sits and walking towards the
front of the church.
                                                         62.


Micaiah stood up and handed Tonya the baby. Before Tonya
realize he was standing at the alter. Tears begin to fill her
eyes. Micaiah raises his hands in surrender until GOD.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE CHURCH

The minister and some of the other elders in the church are
standing on the outside shaking the hands of the members as
they are leaving out of the building.

                    TONYA
          Pastor this is my Husband Micaiah

                    PASTOR COLLINS
          Brother Micaiah, He Who is Like
          God.

                       MICAIAH
          Excuse me.

                    PASTOR COLLINS
          Your Name it means Who is like God.

                    MICAIAH
          Oh, Yeah I think my Grandma told me
          that once before.

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          Yes, My mom named him, rest her
          sole. She always said that Micaiah
          was gone to be a mighty man of God.

                    PASTOR COLLINS
          Well, its good to see you here and
          I hope to see more of you

                    MICAIAH
          You will. Pastor you will.

Throughout the months Micaiah's life is completely changed.
He started working in the church during the days and home
with his family at night. His desire for the street life is
no more. Within a years he is ordained a deacon.


EXT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE - DAY

We see Debra checking the mail. She notices that there is a
letter from Juilliard She walks in the House and puts the
mail on the table
                                                         63.


INT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE

Debra sits at the kitchen table and open the letter that she
just received. As she was reading the letter Donald Sr.
Walked in the room

                    DEBRA
          This is a letter from Juilliard.

                    DONALD SR.
          Oh yeah, What does it say?

                    DEBRA
          They say that Harmony is on
          Academic Probation because she is
          failing her classes. It says that
          they have cut her scholarship and
          she has missed 3 weeks of school.

                    DONALD SR.
          What? Let me see that.

Debra hands him the letter and he sits down at the table. As
he is reading the letter Debra grabs the phone and tries to
call Harmony.

                    DEBRA
          Harmony, this is your mother I need
          you to call us as soon as possible.

                    DONALD SR.
          I don't understand this. Harmony
          has always been an A student. Maybe
          this school is too hard for her.

                    DEBRA
          Not Harmony she is a natural.
          Something else is going on.

While they are sitting there talking the phone rings. Debra
picks up the phone

                     DEBRA (CONT'D)
          Harmony. (a Beat) Oh I'm sorry. No
          DJ not home. I'll have him to call
          you later.

She hangs up the phone.

                    DONALD SR.
          Try calling her again.

Debra dialed her phone again.
                                                         64.


                    DEBRA
          Still no answer.

                    DONALD SR.
          Give me the phone.

He calls Harmony again.

                    DONALD SR. (CONT'D)
          Harmony This is your father. We
          need you to call us immediately or
          we will be heading that way. And
          you don't want us to come there.

He hangs up the phone. He starts pacing the floors.

                    DEBRA
          Donald, you need to calm down you
          know you have to watch your
          pressure.

                    DONALD SR.
          What is this child going through.
          I knew we shouldn't have sent her
          up there. I knew this was a bad
          idea.

                    DEBRA
          Donald you knew we could keep her
          from fulfilling her dream. We had
          to let her go. Let me call around
          to some of her friends everything
          is going to be OK.

She goes to her desk look in the drawer and pull out a book.
She flips through the pages and stop at a page. She picks up
the phone and started to dial.

                    DEBRA (CONT'D)
          Hello.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

                    TONYA
          Hello.


INT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE

                    DEBRA
          Hi. Tonya this is Debra, Harmony's
          mom.
                                                 65.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

                    TONYA
          Oh, hello momma Debra It's so good
          to hear from you. How is everybody.


INT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE

                    DEBRA
          We all are fine. Hmm. Have you
          heard from Harmony lately.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

                    TONYA
          No, Ma'am. What's wrong.


INT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE

                    DEBRA
          Well, I'm sure its nothing, but we
          haven't heard from her and we
          received a letter from the school.
          She hasn't been there in over 3
          weeks

                    TONYA (O.S.)
          No, I haven't heard from her.

                    DEBRA
          Well if you do please tell her to
          call her parents. Her father is
          planning to go there if we don't
          hear from her in the next couple of
          days.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

                    TONYA
          I will. Actually I'm going to call
          my cousin David that lives in New
          York to go check on her OK.

                     DEBRA (O.S.)
          That would be great. Let us know
          something.

                    TONYA
          Ok. I will.
                                                         66.


Tonya hangs up the phone. As she starts to dial her cousin
Micaiah walks in the room. Tonya hangs up the phone.

                    MICAIAH
          What's up baby. Who was that on the
          phone.

                    TONYA
          That's was Harmony's mom. They say
          harmony is missing.

                    MICAIAH
          What? Not my baby girl.

Micaiah begins to pray for God to keep her protected. Tonya
picks up the phone to call her cousin.

                    TONYA
          Hello, David this Tonya.


EXT. CORNER STORE - DAY

                    DAVID
          Oh Wassup cuz. How's it is down in
          Florida.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

                    TONYA
          Oh it's fine. David, do you
          remember the girl I use to hang
          with all the time Harmony.


EXT. CORNER STORE - DAY

                    DAVID (O.S.)
          Harmony. Hell yeah I remember. Oh
          my bad cuz. I forgot you were
          saved. Hmm. Yeah I remember her. To
          come to think of it, I saw her the
          other day. I didn't know that she
          moved here until I saw her at this
          club I went to.

                    TONYA
          Club, what kind of club?

                    DAVID
          You know how I do. A gentlemen's
          club.
                    (MORE)
                                                         67.

                    DAVID (CONT'D)
          Baby girl is striping now and all I
          can say Baby girl got it going on.
          You know what I mean.

                    TONYA
          What? Oh I don't believe that.

                    DAVID
          I kid you not cuz.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

                    TONYA
          Well do me a favor, If you see her
          again. Tell her that her parents
          are looking for her and they say
          that if they do not hear from her
          they will be coming up there.


EXT. CORNER STORE - DAY

                    DAVID
          Well, I might find myself in there
          tonight. If I see her I'll tell
          her.

                    TONYA
          Thanks cuz.


INT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE

Debra spent the majority of the day trying to call Harmony
and she was not able to get her on the phone.

                    DONALD SR.
          Have you had any luck?

                    DEBRA
          No, She still not answering. I am
          really getting concern. What if
          something's wrong?

                    DONALD SR.
          Don't worry baby she is find. She
          is probably really busy. If we
          don't hear from her by tomorrow we
          will head out that way.

                    DEBRA
          Ok.
                                                         68.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE GENTLEMEN'S CLUB - "LADY KNIGHT" - NIGHT

We see the shine from the wet pavement. Car driving by. We
hear people getting out of their car and walking towards the
club.

David is stand on the building because he knew that he would
see her there. We see a car pull up and someone get out of
the car. David looks up and notices that it is her.

Harmony heads to the door as she went to grab the knob she
hears a voice in a distance

                     DAVID (O.S.)
          Harmony.

She looks back to see who was calling her name.

                    HARMONY
          If you are customer you can see me
          inside.

                    DAVID
          Hold up girl. Its me David, Tonya
          cousin.

She closes the door and walks his way still looking puzzle.
When she gets closer to him she notices him.

                    HARMONY
          Oh Hi David. What are you doing
          here?

                    DAVID
          Baby girl, I can ask you the same
          question. But I know the answer to
          that.

Surprise at what he just said she tries to be coy.

                    HARMONY
          Huh, what you mean by that.

                    DAVID
          I know you work here. I was here
          about a couple of months ago and I
          saw you here and Damn baby girl you
          do have it going on.

                    HARMONY
          (she Sneakers a little) thanks.
          Well you going inside. I mean since
          you seem to be a fan, Maybe I'll
          give you a little lap dance.
                                                         69.


                    DAVID
          As tempting as that sounds, I have
          to pass on that. But really I am
          here because Tonya ask me to find
          you.

                    HARMONY
          Tonya, why is everything OK.

                    DAVID
          I don't know what's going on all I
          know is that she told me that your
          parents are looking for you and if
          you don't call them they are coming
          here.

                    HARMONY
          Well thanks for the info. I got to
          go. I'll call them tonight.

She started to head inside and David stops her again.

                    DAVID
          Now that we have that business out
          the way.. Do the offer for the lap
          dance still stand.

                      HARMONY
          Well see.


INT. GENTLEMEN'S CLUB LADY'S KNIGHTS

(Music - Exotic music)

We see a girl dancing on the stage. Men sitting around the
stage enjoying the view.


INT. GENTLEMEN'S CLUB LADY'S KNIGHTS DANCING ROOM

Harmony sitting at her vanity getting ready to go out for her
first dance of the night. She can't concentrate because what
David just told her.

She pulls her phone out of her purse and heads to the back
door to make a call.

                    HOSTS (O.S.)
          Harmony you're on in 10 minutes

                      HARMONY
          Ok.
                                                         70.


She walks out the door. She takes her phone and dials the
number.

                      DEBRA
          Hello.

                      HARMONY
          Hello Mom

                    DEBRA
          Harmony is that you.

                    HARMONY
          Yes ma'am where is dad.


INT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM

                    DEBRA
          Harmony what's going on. We just
          got a letter from your school. It
          says that you are failing and that
          you haven't been to class in 3
          weeks.

                    DONALD SR.
          Let me talk to her.

Harmony's father grabs the phone and immediate started in on
her.

                    DONALD SR. (CONT'D)
          Harmony what is going on there. We
          did not spend the money that we
          have spent to send you to New York
          City and for you to get there and
          act like you don't know how to call
          home. We have been trying to get in
          touch with you for over a week now.


EXT. GENTLEMEN'S CLUB LADY'S KNIGHTS

                     HARMONY
          Dad...   Dad. Please let me explain


INT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE

                    DONALD SR.
          I just don't understand how a
          straight A Student can be suffering
          the way you are.
                                                           71.


EXT. GENTLEMEN'S CLUB LADY'S KNIGHTS

                    HARMONY
          Dad. Everything is just so much
          harder here. I'm fine everything is
          fine.

                    DONALD SR. (O.S.)
          Do we need to come there to
          straight things out.

                    HARMONY
          No no no... Dad please I got this.
          I just think the school made a
          mistake. I will go and talk with
          the dean on Monday OK. Look dad.
          I'm at work now, I will call yall
          in the Morning.

She hangs up the phone   with her parents, reaches in her purse
and pulls out a little   bottle, turns the top open at the end
of the top is a little   scoop. She pulls it out with a white
powder on the end. She   puts it to her noise and sniffs.

She heads back in the building and towards the stage.

                    HOSTS (O.S.)
          Next on the stage Harmony


INT. BEDROOM OF A STRANGER - DAY

We see the sunlight shining through the window. Harmony is
lying there next to a guy. She opens her eyes and immediately
notice that she is in a strange room. She looks around the
room and see the guy laying next to her.

She quickly and quietly grab her things and start putting on
her clothes as she is running out of the room.

                    HARMONY (V.O.)
          You really have to stop getting so
          high. I don't believe that I did
          this again.

She notices that she is late for class again. As she is
getting in her car her phone rings. She looks at the phone
and notices that it is her parents.

                    HARMONY
          I can't handle this right now.

She throws the phone in the passenger seat cranks the car and
drive off.
                                                         72.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Tonya sitting on the bed tired and worn out. She finally got
all of the children to bed and decide to prepare herself for
bed.

The Phone rings. Tonya get up to answer the phone.

                    TONYA
          Hello.

                    HARMONY
          Hello.

Tonya sits up in her bed because she is completely shock to
hear from harmony

                    TONYA
          Harmony... Is that you?

                    HARMONY
          Yes. Its me.

                    TONYA
          Hey. What's going on with   you.
          What are you up to there.

                    HARMONY
          Nothing much. You know I saw your
          cousin last night.

                    TONYA
          Yeah I know. I sent him to find
          you. What's going on Harmony?

                    HARMONY
          I'm fine what's going on with you.
          How are the kids and Cai.

                    TONYA
          Well the kids are fine getting big
          and bad as every. Cai is great. You
          missed his ordination service.

                    HARMONY
          Ordained as what?

                    TONYA
          A deacon. Yes my baby is in the
          church and on his way to being a
          minister.

                    HARMONY
          Oh my God. That is a huge change.
                                                         73.


                    TONYA
          Talking about change, what's this I
          hear about you dancing in a strip
          club. What's that all about?

                    HARMONY
          Girl who told you that oh, let me
          guess your nosey cousin. He need to
          mind his business

                    TONYA
          Calm down Harmony I was just
          asking.

                    HARMONY
          Well I'm fine. I am only working
          there for a little while to help
          pay off some of my bills.

                    TONYA
          Ok. Just don't get caught up in all
          of that.

                    HARMONY
          I know. I want. Actually I am
          planning on coming home in a couple
          of months so I will see yall then.

                    TONYA
          Ok. Talk to you later.


INT. HARMONY'S PARENTS HOUSE - DAY

Debra on the phone trying to call Harmony again. When Donald
walks in the door.

                    DONALD SR.
          She still didn't answer?

                    DEBRA
          No. I don't know what is going on
          with that girl. She said that she
          was going to try to come for our
          anniversary. But I haven't heard
          from her in weeks.

                    DONALD SR.
          Well it doesn't matter now. I just
          put in for a vacation and booked us
          flight to New York tomorrow
                                                            74.


                    DEBRA
          Thank God. I am really concern
          about my child.

                    DONALD SR.
          Well we will get to the bottom of
          this.

                    DEBRA
          I will call Tonya to see if she
          will keep the kids while we are
          gone.


EXT. JACKSONVILLE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DAY

We see Donald and Debra heading in the airport.

When they arrive to New York they rent a car and head to
Juilliard


INT. JUILLIARD LOBBY - DAY

                    RECEPTIONIST
          Hello, Welcome to Juilliard, how
          may I help you.

                    DONALD SR.
          Yes, we would like to speak with
          someone about a letter that we
          received about our Daughter Harmony
          Washington.

                    RECEPTIONIST
          Whom may I say is speaking

                    DONALD SR.
          Mr. And Mrs. Washington.

                    RECEPTIONIST
          Well have a seat and I will give
          him a call.

                       DONALD SR.
          Thank you.


INT. DEAN OF ADMINISTRATION OFFICE - DAY

Mr. And Mrs. Washington thank you for stopping by my office.
I am sadden that it is on these circumstances that you had to
come.
                                                         75.


                    DONALD SR.
          Yes we came because we received
          this letter from you all stating
          that our Daughter is not attending
          classes. We had to come in find out
          if things have gotten better or is
          it still the same.

                    DEAN
          Well according to my records.

He flips the folder open and start to read a couple of pages.

                    DEAN (CONT'D)
          I'm showing she is no longer
          attending school here.

He pulls out a page and hands it to harmony's parents

                    DEAN (CONT'D)
          as you can see she withdraw a
          couple of months ago so we had to
          withdraw her scholarship.

                    DONALD SR.
          I don't understand.

                    DEAN
          I ask my secretary to call over
          Harmony's roommate.

He pages his secretary.

                    DEAN (CONT'D)
          Mrs. Sims send Jessica in.

                    SECRETARY (O.S)
          Yes Dean Simpson.

                    JESSICA
          Hello Mr. and Mrs. Washington

She sits in the chair next to them

                    DEBRA
          Jessica, When is the last time you
          seen Harmony?

                    JESSICA
          Well, its been a while. But I know
          where she is.
                                                           76.


                    DONALD
          You do, (he jumps out of his sit)
          take us to her.

                    JESSICA
          I will but before I do that I
          really need to tell you something.

He sits back down and listened to what she had to say.

                    DEBRA
          What is it Jessica?

                    JESSICA
          I really hate to be the one to tell
          you this, Harmony is (a Beat) I
          don't know how to say it.

She looks at both of harmony's parents then at the Dean

                    DEAN
          Tell them. They need to know what's
          going on.

                    JESSICA
          Harmony is doing drugs.

                       DEBRA
          Oh My God.

                    DONALD SR.
          Are you sure?

                    JESSICA
          Yes, I'm sure. I caught her doing
          it one day and I got so upset that
          I told her that I was going to
          tell. That's when she left. I'm so
          sorry. Its all my fault if I would
          have just mind my own business she
          would still be here.

                    DONALD SR.
          You did the right thing. You were
          only trying to help her. Now you
          said that you know where she is.

                    JESSICA
          Yes, She is staying with her pim..
          I mean.

She catches herself because she didn't want to also tell them
that she was sleeping with men for money and drugs.
                                                          77.


Debra starts to cry even more.   She knows what Jessica was
getting ready to tell them

                    JESSICA (CONT'D)
          I know the house that she lives in,
          but you really don't wanna go
          there.

Donald gets up out of his sit.

                    DONALD SR.
          Take us there now. (a beat) Please.

                     JESSICA
          Yes Sir.

They all get up and leave the Dean's office together.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE SCHOOL - DAY

Jessica gets in the car with them and they head in the
direction she Jessica pointed out. When they got near the
neighborhood we see most of the house boarded up. People
hanging in the streets.

Ladies on the corner of the street trying to sell their
bodies. Donald and Debra and very upset that their daughter
is associated with this type of living.


INT. INSIDE THE CAR - DAY

                    DEBRA
          Are you sure we are in the right
          neighborhood.

                    JESSICA
          Yes Ma'am.. Make a left here and
          its the last house on the right.


EXT. OUTSIDE DJ'S HOUSE - DAY

They get out of the car and head to the fence. Before they
could open the gate they hear a voice in the distances.

                    DJ
          Who's that at my gate?

He pushes the door open and stands in the door with a gun
hanging out of his pants making sure it's visible.
                                                          78.


                    DONALD SR.
          We are looking for Harmony.

                    DJ
          Are you one of her customers?

                    DONALD SR.
          Customer? That's my child. HARMONY
          GET OUT HERE.


INT. DJ'S HOUSE - DAY

Harmony is laying in the bed next to a guy when she hears her
name being called. We hear the 2 men arguing outside.


EXT. OUTSIDE DJ'S HOUSE

                     DONALD SR.
          Look man, I don't want any trouble
          I am just here for my daughter.

                    DEBRA
          HARMONY, IF YOU ARE IN THERE PLEASE
          COME OUT. IT'S YOUR PARENTS.

                    DJ
          You don't call for her Harmony
          belongs to me now.

                    DONALD SR.
          What?

He opens the fence and head the rest of the way in the yard.
DJ pulls out his gun and point it at Donald.


INT. INSIDE DJ'S HOUSE

Harmony hears everything that is going on.   She can't believe
her ears.

                    HARMONY
          That can't be. (She says to
          herself)

She jumps out of the bed and puts on her clothes. She runs to
the door and see that DJ has the gun to her father's head.
She runs out of the door yelling.
                                                         79.


EXT. DJ'S HOUSE FRONT PORCH.

                    HARMONY
          NO. (She screams)

She moves the gun off of her father.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Nigga are you crazy. That's my
          father. Let me handle this OK.

DJ walks away.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          Mom, Dad... what are you doing
          here? Jessica, how dare you bring
          my Parents here.

                    DONALD SR.
          Don't get mad at her. We ask her to
          bring us here. What are you doing
          here Harmony. Have you lost your
          mind. Hanging around Scum like
          this.

                    DJ
          What the hell he just said.   Did he
          just call me scum.

                    HARMONY
          DJ. Go in the house please. Let me
          handle this.

                    DEBRA
          Harmony, we are here to take you
          home. This is not the life that we
          wanted for you.

                    HARMONY
          Home. I am home. Mom. New York is
          my home. Jessica you need to take
          them out of here. They should not
          be here.

                    JESSICA
          You should not be here Harmony.

As Harmony is talking with Jessica and her parents a man
comes out of the house. It is the John that she was laying
next to.

                     UNKNOWN MAN
          Harmony.
                                                         80.


Harmony goes over to the man.

                    HARMONY
          Baby I need to take care of this.
          Can I get with you later.

                    UNKNOWN MAN
          Sure. Handle your business and I
          will see you tonight.

He walks past Harmony's parents, gets in his car and drives
off.

                    HARMONY
          Ok. So why are you here?

                    DONALD SR.
          We are here to take you home.

                    HARMONY
          This is my life now dad. I am
          grown. You can't tell me what to do
          any more.

                    DEBRA
          This is not the life that we wanted
          for you Harmony.

                    DONALD SR.
          I am still your father.

Donald started to get really upset and Debra notice that this
is not helping the situation at all.

                    DEBRA
          Listen, everybody calm down. Look,
          lets go get something to eat, sit
          down and talk about this like
          adults. Ok.

Debra looks at Donald and he immediately knows that she had
something up her sleeves.

                    HARMONY
          Ok. Let me get my things.

Harmony goes in the house to get her things. While she is
going her parents use this time to come up with a plan to
take her back to Jacksonville.

Harmony walks out the door with a bag in her hand. They all
walks to the car and get in.
                                                          81.


INT. INSIDE THE CAR

                    DONALD SR.
          Jessica, if you don't mind we will
          drop you off to the school before
          we go to breakfast. We really need
          to talk with Harmony alone.

                      JESSICA
          Yes, sir.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE SCHOOL

They pull up to the school Donald get out of the car and open
Jessica's door she gets out of the car. Harmony slides down
in the seat because she don't want anyone there to see her.

                     DONALD SR.
          Thanks again Jessica for all of
          your help.

They try to give her money for all of her help but she
refuses to take it.

                    JESSICA
          Seeing Harmony get better is
          payment enough.

                     DEBRA
          Well we truly thank you for all of
          your help.

                    HARMONY
          Yeah, Sell out. You better believe
          I will be coming for you as soon as
          they leave.

They pull off and Harmony begin to give them directions to
the nearest IHOP. Donald start to type in a location in the
GPS.

                    HARMONY (CONT'D)
          You really don't need that dad IHOP
          is right down the street.

                    DEBRA
          We are not going to IHOP.

                     HARMONY
          But I thought you said you wanted
          breakfast.
                                                         82.


                    DEBRA
          Yeah and when we get back to
          Jacksonville you will have all the
          breakfast you can eat.

                    HARMONY
          What? No, let me out of this car.

She tries to open the door but notice that she can't.

                    DONALD SR.
          You won't be able to get out. The
          child safe lock is on so sit back
          and relax. We are taking you home.

They drove all day and all night stopping only for bathroom
breaks. The longer they were in the car the more Harmony
started to go into withdraw. They knew that there was no way
that they could bring her home with them she needed help.

On the way in Debra made a few calls and found a good rehab
center for her just outside of Jacksonville. When they pull
up to the center and stop the car.

                    DEBRA
          Tonya's husband said that this was
          a good place. They will take care
          of you.

Harmony knew that it was something that she had to do even if
she didn't want to. She grab her bags and walk to the door
where there are people waiting for her.


INT. CHURCH SANTUARY - DAY

We hear the choir singing and the members joining along with
them.


EXT. OUTSIDE THE CHURCH - DAY

On the corner across the street from the church 4 guys are
standing on the corner looking at the members go in the
church.

                    THUG 3
          Yeah bra, that's the church right
          there.

                    THUG 4
          What about it?
                                                         83.


                    THUG 3
          I hear that Micaiah is the
          Associate Jr. Pastor there now. He
          spends his time pulling the drug
          users and dealers off of the
          streets.

                    THUG 4
          So what you telling me he is eating
          into our business.

                    THUG 3
          Yeah, I think he need to be dealt
          with.

                    THUG 5
          Y'all crazy, that's a church man.
          Y'all are talking about a man of
          God. You think God going to let you
          go in there and start something.

                    THUG 3
          Let's go deal with him.

                    THUG 5
          Wait come on now don't do this. I
          grew up in the church and I may not
          following it now but I do remember
          some of the stuff my mom use to
          tell me. And the one main thing is
          that I remember is Don't mess with
          the man of God. I think the way she
          use to say it is Touch not my
          prophet and do my anointing no
          harm.

                    THUG 3
          What? Man that crap you just said
          doesn't make any since. Move out
          the way.

                    THUG 5
          Basically we should not do this. I
          won't be apart of this. I am out of
          here.

He walks away yelling back at them.

                    THUG 5 (CONT'D)
          Don't go in that church starting
          anything.

The other 3 ignored the warning and headed for the church
anyway.
                                                         84.


They were determined to fine out what this minister was doing
to make so many young men walk away from the streets.


INT. CHURCH SANTUARY

They walk in the door and see the choir singing. The ushers
walks up to them with a warm welcome.

                    USHER
          Welcome my young brothers. Bless
          the Lord that you are here with us
          today.

                    THUG 3
          Yeah we will sit right here. They
          take the first available sit in the
          back of the church.

When the choir were done. The Minister got up to start his
sermon and when he said the title it caught the 3 thugs
attention.

                    MINISTER MICAIAH
          Good Morning Church, I bless God
          for the Glorious day that he has
          made I will rejoice and be glad in
          it. Today I will be speaking on the
          Thug Life: Turning over your Thug
          life for a New Life in God. Turn
          with us to the Book of Acts the 9th
          chapter starting at the first
          versus.

He explained how he was living the Thug life and turned over
a new leaf. His words moved at least one of the 4 thugs.
Because when the alter call was made One of them got up out
of their sit and walked towards the front of the church.

Thug 3 notice thug 6 heading to the front of the church so he
grabbed his arm.

                    THUG 3
          What are you doing? Lets get out of
          here.

Thug 6 didn't want to leave He was so moved by what he just
heard that he needed to find out more. He pulls his arm away
and continue to the front

                    MINISTER MICAIAH
          Praise the Lord my brother. Don't
          let this opportunity pass you by,
          you may not get another chance.
                                                         85.


As he is walking towards the front of the church he is
somehow compiled to put his hand up. Tears where falling from
his eyes. The members all around him begin to sing praises
and rejoicing


EXT. A COUPLE OF BLOCKS AWAY FROM THE CHURCH - DAY

They headed away from the church and ran into Thug 5 who was
very curious as what happened

                    THUG 5
          So, What happened back there? Yall
          didn't do anything stupid did yall.

As they were standing there talking he notice a car driving
by very slowly.

                    THUG 5 (CONT'D)
          Gun.

As soon as he said that The guys in the car opened fired. The
3 boys scattered trying to avoid the bullets. 2 of them
weren't so lucky.

The following Sunday Thug 5 decided to go to church He knew
that this was a sign that it was time to get his life right.

                    MINISTER MICAIAH
          Yesterday we had to hold Funeral
          services for 2 young men that were
          murdered last week. This saddens me
          because on the same day that they
          were murdered they sat right here
          in this santuary. In those seats
          right there. God was calling them
          then and they knew it but turned
          their backs on the calling. Now its
          too late for them. We have a
          visitor with us today that would
          like to say something. Brother
          Tyler.

                    THUG 6 - TYLER
          I use to run with the guys that got
          killed last week. Actually we all
          came here together. I heard the
          call my friends didn't....
                                                            86.


INT. SANTUARY   - DAY

The santuary is empty the only one there is Micaiah
straightening the Bibles and getting the place ready for
bible study.

Micaiah puts his phone on vibrate and go down for prayer.
While he is praying we hear the phone vibrating.


EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY

We see Tyrone on the phone walking down the streets. He
looks like he is nervous about something. Constantly,
looking over his shoulders while he is on the phone.

                    TYRONE
          Cai when you hear this holla at me
          cause I'm on the edge, I need your
          prayers I'm in a rage and I'm
          seeing red.

He hangs up the phone and goes inside the nearest store.


INT. CHURCH SANTUARY

We see Micaiah rise from his knees. Wipe his face and getting
ready for the people to come. He picks up his phone and
notice that he had a miss call. He calls the voicemail and
hears the message from Tyrone.

The message puts fear in Micaiah because He knew that his
friend was in trouble.

                    MICAIAH
          Hello, Tyrone

                    TYRONE
          Yeah, this is He. I need to see you
          man.

                    MICAIAH
          Well I'm at the church you can come
          and see me.

                    TYRONE
          Bet, I'm around the corner I will
          be there in a minute.

He hangs up the phone and immediately start praying again.
                                                         87.


                    MICAIAH
          Lord, I need your help in what to
          say to my dear friend. Lord Guide
          me with the right words to help led
          him in.

As he was praying the doors open and in comes Tyrone. The two
walks to the back of the church and in Micaiah's Office.

                    TYRONE
          Cai, what's up my nig... Oh my bad,
          I forgot. Excuse me Lord. Look at
          you, big preacher man. Wow I can't
          believe it.

                    MICAIAH
          So what's been going on with you.

                    TYRONE
          First I want to apologize for how
          I treated you the last time we saw
          each other.

                    MICAIAH
          All is forgiven.

The both hugged.

                    TYRONE
          I need you to ask your God to
          forgive me for what I did last
          night.

                    MICAIAH
          He is your God too. You just need
          to accept him in your life and you
          will forgive you of all your sins.

                    TYRONE
          Yeah but I killed somebody last
          night.

                    MICAIAH
          Man, I have see you kill plenty and
          you have never felt guilty about
          any of that.

                    TYRONE
          It was a 10 year boy. It was an
          accident man. I didn't mean to
          kill him.
                                                         88.


                    MICAIAH
          You know you need to turn yourself
          in.

                    TYRONE
          What your God can forgive
          everything but this.

                    MICAIAH
          Again He is not just my God. He is
          your God too. Right now what you
          need to do is get things right
          between you and God. Then God will
          direct you on how to handle this
          but I am telling you it is best
          that you turn yourself in instead
          of running. Let God handle it for
          you.

                    TYRONE
          I know that I have to. I know that
          it is the right thing to do. I just
          wanted you to pray with me and for
          me.

They begin to pray together.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Micaiah and Tonya sitting on the bed watching TV getting
ready to turn it in for the night. When the News 4 Jax comes
on.


EXT. OUTSIDE CRIME SCENE - NIGHT

                    REPORTER
          The man accused of killing a 10
          year old boy last night in a gang
          related shooting, was gunned down
          today by police when they arrived
          at his home with an arrest warrant
          him. Officers say that the man was
          resisting arrest, pulled out a gun
          and waved it at the officers. That
          is when the open fire and the man
          was killed.
                                                         89.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S BEDROOM

When Micaiah heard that he immediately knew that it was
Tyrone. He picked up his phone and start trying to call him
but he didn't get a answer.

                    MICAIAH
          It wasn't suppose to end up this
          way. He was going to turn his self
          in.

                    TONYA
          Micaiah, What's wrong. Who was
          going to turn their self in.

                    MICAIAH
          I just talked to him today.

                    TONYA
          Who, whats going on.

                    MICAIAH
          That was Tyrone they are talking
          about.

                    TONYA
          Ty.

                    MICAIAH
          Yes. He came by the church tonight.
          He told me that he shot the boy.
          He asked for prayer.

Tonya gets up to try to consoled her husband.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          He wanted to turn his life around.
          This is just not right. How am I
          suppose to deal with this.

He gets up from the edge of the bed puts on some clothes and
shoes.

                    TONYA
          Where are you going?

                    MICAIAH
          I need to get out of here. I need
          to think. I'll be back baby.

                    TONYA
          Micaiah, I don't think you need to
          be by yourself right now.
                                                          90.


As she is talking Micaiah is walking out the door.

                     TONYA (CONT'D)
          Micaiah,

She gets up and head to the front of the house.   She hears
the door close as she is walking to the front.

Tonya begins to worry. She know that this is hard on
Micaiah. He and Tyrone has been friends since middle school
and this is something that she fears will drive him to the
edge.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S BEDROOM - DAY

Tonya gets up and wakes the children for church. She notices
that her husband is still in the bed.

                    TONYA
          Micaiah, We are getting ready for
          church this morning. Are you
          feeling OK. You normally up before
          we are.

                    MICAIAH
          You know baby, I'm not going this
          morning. I really don't feel up to
          it this morning.

                    TONYA
          What? That's not like you. (A Beat)
          Look, I know Tyrone's death is very
          hard for you to take. But baby you
          can't allow this to make you give
          up. God has done too much in our
          lives for you to turn your back
          now.

                    MICAIAH
          Tonya, I just need some time OK.
          Please.

                    TONYA
          Ok. I'll ask Bishop to stop by
          later on OK.

                    MICAIAH
          No, I really don't want to talk
          with any one right now.

Weeks go by and Micaiah still can't bring his self into going
to church. He sits on the sofa watching TV while His family
once again preparing to go to church.
                                                           91.


                    TONYA
          Alright kids let's go.

All of the children grab the jackets and head towards the
door. One by one they all look at the father sitting there.
They want to say something but no one can bring them self to
it. Micaiah's youngest child looks at him and ask..

                    STEPHANIE
          Daddy, why you don't come to church
          any more.

                    MICAIAH
          Oh baby girl.

He grabs his daughter and gives her the biggest hug. The
other children seeing this decides to go over to him and give
him a hug also.

                    MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Kids I need you all to do me a
          favor. Today I want you all to
          pray for me. Pray like you never
          prayed before.

The children all left out of the house and Tonya stayed
behind to talk with Micaiah.

                    TONYA
          Look you really need to get your
          act together. Because I can't go
          through this again with you. I need
          you (A BEAT) Your children need
          you.

                    MICAIAH
          Yes baby, I know. I'm going to get
          my act together. I promise.


EXT.

He began hanging out with his old friends. Getting involved
in his old habits. After weeks of hanging on the streets
Micaiah knew that it was time to get his self together.

                    MICAIAH
          RahJean, I need to talk to you.

                    RAHJEAN
          Sure, come on sit down
                                                            92.


                    MICAIAH
          Look man, I got to get out of this.
          I don't even suppose to be out
          here. I a minister. Well (a beat) I
          use to be a minister.

While they were sitting on the porch talking they notice a
car drive past them very slowly and then pulled off.

                    RAHJEAN
          You know I understand. You are not
          the same anyway. You really don't
          belong out here. Go take care of
          yourself, take care of your wife
          and kids.

As Micaiah was heading back home he notice the same car that
he saw earlier drive by. He quickly turns down another street
to try to avoid the car. We hear the engine turn off and the
car door open.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S BEDROOM

When Tonya and the church get home they notice that Micaiah
is not there.

                    TONYA
          Alright Children, it's late go
          ahead and get ready for bed. I will
          be up in a minute to tuck you in.

                       ALL TOGETHER
          Yes ma'am.

While the children are getting ready for bed Tonya calls
Beatrice.

                    TONYA
          Hello Mamma Bea, I came home and
          Micaiah is not here. I feel that
          something is wrong. Mama can you
          keep him in your prayer tonight

                    BEATRICE - LADY BEA
          I always do. With the both of us
          praying for him. He will be fine.
          Don't you worry the Lord will
          protect him.

                    TONYA
          Ok. Thanks ma, I really needed to
          hear that. Goodnight.
                                                          93.


She hangs up the phone, go in to tuck the children in and
Immediately start praying. First she gets on her knees and
start to pray for her husband.


EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

As Micaiah is walking home he notice that the guys getting
out of the car and knew that something was not right. He
start to walk at a quicker paste trying to hurry home.

We hear a man running through the streets breathing very hard
and gun shots ringing through the air.

                    THUG 1
          I know he went this way.

They look down one alley and then another

                    THUG
          There he is

Bang Bang they shot the guns in his direction.

                    THUG (CONT'D)
          I think I shot him.

                    THUG 2
          Man you missed him. You sorry. You
          go get the car let me handle this.

He shakes the gun in his hand.

                    THUG 2 (CONT'D)
          I catch him and take him out of his
          miser.

One of the thugs runs down the alley and the other runs the
opposite way to get the car.

As he is running after the another man he sees him through
the buildings

Bang Bang Bang.

The Micaiah notice that he has run into a dead end.   With no
way out and no where to run.

                     THUG 2 (CONT'D)
          THERE'S NO WAY OUT CAI, NO WHERE TO
          RUN.
Micaiah realize that he has no choice but to surrender. He
put his hands up and begin to pray. He knows that the only
way out of this situation is with the Help of the Lord.
                                                         94.


                    MICAIAH (V.O.)
          I knew my life was going to end up
          this way. All my life I said that
          one day Someone was going to take
          me out one of these days. All of
          the dirt that I did over the years
          this was bound to happen.

We hear the gun cock back


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S BEDROOM

Tonya stands to her feet pasting back and forth praying for
him. We see tears running down her face she begin speaking in
tongues.


EXT. BACK ALLEY - NIGHT

                    MICAIAH (V.O.)
          And now its over.

The thug pulls the trigger but the gun jams. He tries again
to shoot. When Micaiah notices that he is having a problem
he hits the Thug in the face and takes off. After his is
well in running distance we here the gun go off.

Bang Bang.. But Micaiah is too far out of the way. He runs
across the street and the thug runs behind him and his
attention is focused on shooting Micaiah so much til he
didn't notice the car coming right at him.

When the Car hit him his gun goes off and shoot the driver of
the car in the head. Micaiah notices that he is not being
followed anymore. He turns around and head back down the
alley. He notices the same car sitting there and the thug
that was shooting at him draped over the hood.

Micaiah goes in closer and see that both of the Thugs were
dead. He immediately knew that this was God's way of
rescuing him. Giving him another chance to get his self
together and back into the church. He begin to praise God.

We see the Blue lights of the Police car. Micaiah knew that
he had to get out of there because he did not want to be
associated with this crime.

Micaiah runs the rest of the way home. When he gets to his
front door he stops and thanks God for getting him home
safely.
                                                          95.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

He opens the door and head to the bedroom. When Tonya see him
she grabs him and begin to praise God for bring him home
safely.

                     TONYA
          Oh baby I didn't think I would see
          you again.

                    MICAIAH
          Baby you just don't know I almost
          Died tonight. I feel that God
          Himself came down and saved me. I
          Thank God for a praying wife (A
          Beat) and mother because I know she
          was praying for me too. I need to
          call her.

Micaiah picks up the phone and call his mom.

The following morning, Micaiah couldn't wait until Sunday to
get to the church. He calls his Pastor and ask to met him at
the church.

Micaiah meet with his Pastor and fall on his knees and
repented.

                       MICAIAH (CONT'D)
          Bishop, I    thank God that I made it
          back. But    I really feel that in
          order for    me to make a clean start
          I need to    leave this town.

                    BISHOP
          I understand son. Just make sure
          where ever you go you find a church
          that will feed you the word. You
          take it in and God will use you.


INT. MICAIAH AND TONYA'S NEW HOUSE

We see Micaiah and his family packing there house and getting
ready to leave.

Super: 2 years later
                                                      96.


INT. CHURCH SANTUARY - OVER 500 MEMBERS

                    MICAIAH
          My brother, my sister I thank God
          everyday for being able to stand
          before you.

                                              FADE OUT.
 